"The Project Gutenberg eBook of Plato and the Other Companions of Sokrates, 3rd ed. Volume 1
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
Title: Plato and the Other Companions of Sokrates, 3rd ed. Volume 1

Author: George Grote


Release date: August 7, 2012 [eBook #40435]
Most recently updated: October 23, 2024

Language: English

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/40435

Credits: Produced by Ed Brandon as part of the on-line Grote Project

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PLATO AND THE OTHER COMPANIONS OF SOKRATES, 3RD ED. VOLUME 1 ***
PLATO, AND THE OTHER COMPANIONS OF SOKRATES.
 

 

 

 

ABERDEEN UNIVERSITY PRESS.
 

 

 

 

 

PLATO,
and the
OTHER COMPANIONS OF SOKRATES.
 

by
GEORGE GROTE
 

A NEW EDITION.
 

IN FOUR VOLUMES.
 

Vol. I.
 

LONDON:
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.
1885.
The right of Translation is reserved.

 

 

ADVERTISEMENT.

In the present Edition, with a view to the distribution into four volumes, there is a slight transposition of the author’s arrangement. His concluding chapters (XXXVIII., XXXIX.), entitled “Other Companions of Sokrates,” and “Xenophon,” are placed in the First Volume, as chapters III. and IV. By this means each volume is made up of nearly related subjects, so as to possess a certain amount of unity.

Volume First contains the following subjects:—Speculative Philosophy in Greece before Sokrates; Growth of Dialectic; Other Companions of Sokrates; Xenophon; Life of Plato; Platonic Canon; Platonic Compositions generally; Apology of Sokrates; Kriton; Euthyphron.

Volume Second comprises:—Alkibiades I. and II.; Hippias Major — Hippias Minor; Hipparchus — Minos; Theages; Erastæ or Anterastæ — Rivales; Ion; Laches; Charmides; Lysis; Euthydemus; Menon; Protagoras; Gorgias; Phædon.

Volume Third:—Phædrus — Symposion; Parmenides; Theætetus; Sophistes; Politikus; Kratylus; Philebus; Menexenus; Kleitophon.

Volume Fourth:—Republic; Timæus and Kritias; Leges and Epinomis; General Index.

The Volumes may be obtained separately.

 

 

 

PREFACE.
The present work is intended as a sequel and supplement to my History of Greece. It describes a portion of Hellenic philosophy: it dwells upon eminent individuals, enquiring, theorising, reasoning, confuting, &c., as contrasted with those collective political and social manifestations which form the matter of history, and which the modern writer gathers from Herodotus, Thucydides, and Xenophon.

Both Sokrates and Plato, indeed, are interesting characters in history as well as in philosophy. Under the former aspect, they were described by me in my former work as copiously as its general purpose would allow. But it is impossible to do justice to either of them — above all, to Plato, with his extreme variety and abundance — except in a book of which philosophy is the principal subject, and history only the accessory.

The names of Plato and Aristotle tower above all others in Grecian philosophy. Many compositions from both have been preserved, though only a small proportion of the total number left by Aristotle. Such preservation must be accounted highly fortunate, when we read in Diogenes Laertius and others, the long list of works on various topics of philosophy, now irrecoverably lost, and known by little except their titles. Respecting a few of them, indeed, we obtain some partial indications from fragmentary extracts and comments of later critics. But none of these once celebrated philosophers, except Plato and Aristotle, can be fairly appreciated upon evidence furnished by themselves. The Platonic dialogues, besides the extraordinary genius which vithey display as compositions, bear thus an increased price (like the Sibylline books) as the scanty remnants of a lost philosophical literature, once immense and diversified.

Under these two points of view, I trust that the copious analysis and commentary bestowed upon them in the present work will not be considered as unnecessarily lengthened. I maintain, full and undiminished, the catalogue of Plato’s works as it was inherited from antiquity and recognised by all critics before the commencement of the present century. Yet since several subsequent critics have contested the canon, and set aside as spurious many of the dialogues contained in it, — I have devoted a chapter to this question, and to the vindication of the views on which I have proceeded.

The title of these volumes will sufficiently indicate that I intend to describe, as far as evidence permits, the condition of Hellenic philosophy at Athens during the half century immediately following the death of Sokrates in 399 B.C. My first two chapters do indeed furnish a brief sketch of Pre-Sokratic philosophy: but I profess to take my departure from Sokrates himself, and these chapters are inserted mainly in order that the theories by which he found himself surrounded may not be altogether unknown. Both here, and in the sixty-ninth chapter of my History, I have done my best to throw light on the impressive and eccentric personality of Sokrates: a character original and unique, to whose peculiar mode of working on other minds I scarcely know a parallel in history. He was the generator, indirectly and through others, of a new and abundant crop of compositions — the “Sokratic dialogues”: composed by many different authors, among whom Plato stands out as unquestionable coryphæus, yet amidst other names well deserving respectful mention as seconds, companions, or opponents.

It is these Sokratic dialogues, and the various companions of Sokrates from whom they proceeded, that the present work is intended to exhibit. They form the dramatic manifestation viiof Hellenic philosophy — as contrasted with the formal and systematising, afterwards prominent in Aristotle.

But the dialogue is a process containing commonly a large intermixture, often a preponderance, of the negative vein: which was more abundant and powerful in Sokrates than in any one. In discussing the Platonic dialogues, I have brought this negative vein into the foreground. It reposes upon a view of the function and value of philosophy which is less dwelt upon than it ought to be, and for which I here briefly prepare the reader.

Philosophy is, or aims at becoming, reasoned truth: an aggregate of matters believed or disbelieved after conscious process of examination gone through by the mind, and capable of being explained to others: the beliefs being either primary, knowingly assumed as self-evident — or conclusions resting upon them, after comparison of all relevant reasons favourable and unfavourable. “Philosophia” (in the words of Cicero), “ex rationum collatione consistit.” This is not the form in which beliefs or disbeliefs exist with ordinary minds: there has been no conscious examination — there is no capacity of explaining to others — there is no distinct setting out of primary truths assumed — nor have any pains been taken to look out for the relevant reasons on both sides, and weigh them impartially. Yet the beliefs nevertheless exist as established facts generated by traditional or other authority. They are sincere and often earnest, governing men’s declarations and conduct. They represent a cause in which sentence has been pronounced, or a rule made absolute, without having previously heard the pleadings.1

1Napoléon, qui de temps en temps, au milieu de sa fortune et de sa puissance, songeait à Robespierre et à sa triste fin — interrogeait un jour son archi-chancelier Cambacérès sur le neuf Thermidor. “C’est un procès jugé et non plaidé,” répondait Cambacérès, avec la finesse d’un jurisconsulte courtisan. — (Hippolyte Carnot — Notice sur Barère, p. 109; Paris, 1842.)

Now it is the purpose of the philosopher, first to bring this omission of the pleadings into conscious notice — next to discover, evolve, and bring under hearing the matters omitted, viiias far as they suggest themselves to his individual reason. He claims for himself, and he ought to claim for all others alike, the right of calling for proof where others believe without proof — of rejecting the received doctrines, if upon examination the proof given appears to his mind unsound or insufficient — and of enforcing instead of them any others which impress themselves upon his mind as true. But the truth which he tenders for acceptance must of necessity be reasoned truth; supported by proofs, defended by adequate replies against preconsidered objections from others. Only hereby does it properly belong to the history of philosophy: hardly even hereby has any such novelty a chance of being fairly weighed and appreciated.

When we thus advert to the vocation of philosophy, we see that (to use the phrase of an acute modern author2) it is by necessity polemical: the assertion of independent reason by individual reasoners, who dissent from the unreasoning belief which reigns authoritative in the social atmosphere around them, and who recognise no correction or ixrefutation except from the counter-reason of others. We see besides, that these dissenters from the public will also be, probably, more or less dissenters from each other. The process of philosophy may be differently performed by two enquirers equally free and sincere, even of the same age and country: and it is sure to be differently performed, if they belong to ages and countries widely apart. It is essentially relative to the individual reasoning mind, and to the medium by which the reasoner is surrounded. Philosophy herself has every thing to gain by such dissent; for it is only thereby that the weak and defective points of each point of view are likely to be exposed. If unanimity is not attained, at least each of the dissentients will better understand what he rejects as well as what he adopts.

2Professor Ferrier, in his instructive volume, ‘The Institutes of Metaphysic,’ has some valuable remarks on the scope and purpose of Philosophy. I transcribe some of them, in abridgment.

(Sections 1-8) “A system of philosophy is bound by two main requisitions: it ought to be true — and it ought to be reasoned. Philosophy, in its ideal perfection, is a body of reasoned truth. Of these obligations, the latter is the more stringent. It is more proper that philosophy should be reasoned, than that it should be true: because, while truth may perhaps be unattainable by man, to reason is certainly his province and within his power.… A system is of the highest value only when it embraces both these requisitions — that is, when it is both true, and reasoned. But a system which is reasoned without being true, is always of higher value than a system which is true without being reasoned. The latter kind of system is of no value: because philosophy is the attainment of truth by the way of reason. That is its definition. A system, therefore, which reaches the truth but not by the way of reason, is not philosophy at all, and has therefore no scientific worth. Again, an unreasoned philosophy, even though true, carries no guarantee of its truth. It may be true, but it cannot be certain. On the other hand, a system, which is reasoned without being true, has always some value. It creates reason by exercising it. It is employing the proper means to reach truth, though it may fail to reach it.” (Sections 38-41) — “The student will find that the system here submitted to his attention is of a very polemical character. Why! Because philosophy exists only to correct the inadvertencies of man’s ordinary thinking. She has no other mission to fulfil. If man naturally thinks aright, he need not be taught to think aright. If he is already in possession of the truth, he does not require to be put in possession of it. The occupation of philosophy is gone: her office is superfluous. Therefore philosophy assumes and must assume that man does not naturally think aright, but must be taught to do so: that truth does not come to him spontaneously, but must be brought to him by his own exertions. If man does not naturally think aright, he must think, we shall not say wrongly (for that implies malice prepense) but inadvertently: the native occupant of his mind must be, we shall not say falsehood (for that too implies malice prepense) but error. The original dowry then of universal man is inadvertency and error. This assumption is the ground and only justification of the existence of philosophy. The circumstance that philosophy exists only to put right the oversights of common thinking — renders her polemical not by choice, but by necessity. She is controversial as the very tenure and condition of her existence: for how can she correct the slips of common opinion, the oversights of natural thinking, except by controverting them?” Professor Ferrier deserves high commendation for the care taken in this volume to set out clearly Proposition and Counter-Proposition: the thesis which he impugns, as well as that which he sustains.

The number of individual intellects, independent, inquisitive, and acute, is always rare everywhere; but was comparatively less rare in these ages of Greece. The first topic, on which such intellects broke loose from the common consciousness of the world around them, and struck out new points of view for themselves, was in reference to the Kosmos or the Universe. The received belief, of a multitude of unseen divine persons bringing about by volitions all the different phenomena of nature, became unsatisfactory to men like Thales, Anaximander, Parmenides, Pythagoras, Anaxagoras. Each of these volunteers, following his own independent inspirations, struck out a new hypothesis, and endeavoured xto commend it to others with more or less of sustaining reason. There appears to have been little of negation or refutation in their procedure. None of them tried to disprove the received point of view, or to throw its supporters upon their defence. Each of them unfolded his own hypothesis, or his own version of affirmative reasoned truth, for the adoption of those with whom it might find favour.

The dialectic age had not yet arrived. When it did arrive, with Sokrates as its principal champion, the topics of philosophy were altered, and its process revolutionised. We have often heard repeated the Ciceronian dictum — that Sokrates brought philosophy down from the heavens to the earth: from the distant, abstruse, and complicated phenomena of the Kosmos — in respect to which he adhered to the vulgar point of view, and even disapproved any enquiries tending to rationalise it — to the familiar business of man, and the common generalities of ethics and politics. But what has been less observed about Sokrates, though not less true, is, that along with this change of topics he introduced a complete revolution in method. He placed the negative in the front of his procedure; giving to it a point, an emphasis, a substantive value, which no one had done before. His peculiar gift was that of cross-examination, or the application of his Elenchus to discriminate pretended from real knowledge. He found men full of confident beliefs on these ethical and political topics — affirming with words which they had never troubled themselves to define — and persuaded that they required no farther teaching: yet at the same time unable to give clear or consistent answers to his questions, and shown by this convincing test to be destitute of real knowledge. Declaring this false persuasion of knowledge, or confident unreasoned belief, to be universal, he undertook, as the mission of his life, to expose it: and he proclaimed that until the mind was disabused thereof and made painxifully conscious of ignorance, no affirmative reasoned truth could be presented with any chance of success.

Such are the peculiar features of the Sokratic dialogue, exemplified in the compositions here reviewed. I do not mean that Sokrates always talked so; but that such was the marked peculiarity which distinguished his talking from that of others. It is philosophy, or reasoned truth, approached in the most polemical manner; operative at first only to discredit the natural, unreasoned intellectual growths of the ordinary mind, and to generate a painful consciousness of ignorance. I say this here, and I shall often say it again throughout these volumes. It is absolutely indispensable to the understanding of the Platonic dialogues; one half of which must appear unmeaning, unless construed with reference to this separate function and value of negative dialectic. Whether readers may themselves agree in such estimation of negative dialectic, is another question: but they must keep it in mind as the governing sentiment of Plato during much of his life, and of Sokrates throughout the whole of life: as being moreover one main cause of that antipathy which Sokrates inspired to many respectable orthodox contemporaries. I have thought it right to take constant account of this orthodox sentiment among the ordinary public, as the perpetual drag-chain, even when its force is not absolutely repressive, upon free speculation.

Proceeding upon this general view, I have interpreted the numerous negative dialogues in Plato as being really negative and nothing beyond. I have not presumed, still less tried to divine, an ulterior Affirmative beyond what the text reveals — neither arcana cœlestia, like Proklus and Ficinus,3 nor any other arcanum of terrestrial character. While giving such an analysis of each dialogue as my space permitted and xiias will enable the reader to comprehend its general scope and peculiarities — I have studied each as it stands written, and have rarely ascribed to Plato any purpose exceeding what he himself intimates. Where I find difficulties forcibly dwelt upon without any solution, I imagine, not that he had a good solution kept back in his closet, but that he had failed in finding one: that he thought it useful, as a portion of the total process necessary for finding and authenticating reasoned truth, both to work out these unsolved difficulties for himself, and to force them impressively upon the attention of others.4

3F. A. Wolf, Vorrede, Plato, Sympos. p. vi.

“Ficinus suchte, wie er sich in der Zueignungsschrift seiner Vision ausdrückt, im Platon allenthalben arcana cœlestia: und da er sie in seinem Kopfe mitbrachte, so konnte es ihm nicht sauer werden, etwas zu finden, was freilich jedem andern verborgen bleiben muss.”

4A striking passage from Bentham illustrates very well both the Sokratic and the Platonic point of view. (Principles of Morals and Legislation, vol. ii. ch. xvi. p. 57, ed. 1823.)

“Gross ignorance descries no difficulties. Imperfect knowledge finds them out and struggles with them. It must be perfect knowledge that overcomes them.”

Of the three different mental conditions here described, the first is that against which Sokrates made war, i.e. real ignorance, and false persuasion of knowledge, which therefore descries no difficulties.

The second, or imperfect knowledge struggling with difficulties, is represented by the Platonic negative dialogues.

The third — or perfect knowledge victorious over difficulties — will be found in the following pages marked by the character τὸ δύνασθαι λόγον διδόναι καὶ δέχεσθαι. You do not possess “perfect knowledge,” until you are able to answer, with unfaltering promptitude and consistency, all the questions of a Sokratic cross-examiner — and to administer effectively the like cross-examination yourself, for the purpose of testing others. Ὃλως δὲ σημεῖον τοῦ εἰδότος τὸ δύνασθαι διδάσκειν ἔστιν. (Aristotel. Metaphys. A. 981, b. 8.)

Perfect knowledge, corresponding to this definition, will not be found manifested in Plato. Instead of it, we note in his latter years the lawgiver’s assumed infallibility.

Moreover, I deal with each dialogue as a separate composition. Each represents the intellectual scope and impulse of a peculiar moment, which may or may not be in harmony with the rest. Plato would have protested not less earnestly than Cicero,5 against those who sought to foreclose debate, in the grave and arduous struggles for searching out reasoned truth — and to bind down the free inspirations of his intellect in one dialogue, by appealing to sentence already pronounced xiiiin another preceding. Of two inconsistent trains of reasoning, both cannot indeed be true — but both are often useful to be known and studied: and the philosopher, who professes to master the theory of his subject, ought not to be a stranger to either. All minds athirst for reasoned truth will be greatly aided in forming their opinions by the number of points which Plato suggests, though they find little which he himself settles for them finally.

5Cicero, Tusc. Disp. v. 11, 38.

The collocutor remarks that what Cicero says is inconsistent with what he (Cicero) had written in the fourth book De Finibus. To which Cicero replies:—

“Tu quidem tabellis obsignatis agis mecum, et testificaris, quid dixerim aliquando aut scripserim. Cum aliis isto modo, qui legibus impositis disputant. Nos in diem vivimus: quodcunque nostros animos probabilitate percussit, id dicimus: itaque soli sumus liberi.”

There have been various critics, who, on perceiving inconsistencies in Plato, either force them into harmony by a subtle exegêsis, or discard one of them as spurious.6 I have not followed either course. I recognise such inconsistencies, when found, as facts — and even as very interesting facts — in his philosophical character. To the marked contradiction in the spirit of the Leges, as compared with the earlier Platonic compositions, I have called special attention. Plato has been called by Plutarch a mixture of Sokrates with Lykurgus. The two elements are in reality opposite, predominant at different times: Plato begins his career with the confessed ignorance and philosophical negative of Sokrates: he closes it with the peremptory, dictatorial, affirmative of Lykurgus.

6Since the publication of the first edition of this work, there have appeared valuable commentaries on the philosophy of the late Sir William Hamilton, by Mr. John Stuart Mill, and Mr. Stirling and others. They have exposed inconsistencies, both grave and numerous, in some parts of Sir William Hamilton’s writings as compared with others. But no one has dreamt of drawing an inference from this fact, that one or other of the inconsistent trains of reasoning must be spurious, falsely ascribed to Sir William Hamilton.

Now in the case of Plato, this same fact of inconsistency is accepted by nearly all his commentators as a sound basis for the inference that both the inconsistent treatises cannot be genuine: though the dramatic character of Plato’s writings makes inconsistencies much more easily supposable than in dogmatic treatises such as those of Hamilton.

To Xenophon, who belongs only in part to my present work, and whose character presents an interesting contrast with Plato, I have devoted a separate chapter. To the other less celebrated Sokratic Companions also, I have endeavoured to do justice, as far as the scanty means of knowledge permit: xivto them, especially, because they have generally been misconceived and unduly depreciated.

The present volumes, however, contain only one half of the speculative activity of Hellas during the fourth century B.C. The second half, in which Aristotle is the hero, remains still wanting. If my health and energies continue, I hope one day to be able to supply this want: and thus to complete from my own point of view, the history, speculative as well as active, of the Hellenic race, down to the date which I prescribed to myself in the Preface of my History near twenty years ago.

The philosophy of the fourth century B.C. is peculiarly valuable and interesting, not merely from its intrinsic speculative worth — from the originality and grandeur of its two principal heroes — from its coincidence with the full display of dramatic, rhetorical, artistic genius — but also from a fourth reason not unimportant — because it is purely Hellenic; preceding the development of Alexandria, and the amalgamation of Oriental veins of thought with the inspirations of the Academy or the Lyceum. The Orontes7 and the Jordan had not yet begun to flow westward, and to impart their own colour to the waters of Attica and Latium. Not merely the real world, but also the ideal world, present to the minds of Plato and Aristotle, were purely Hellenic. Even during the century immediately following, this had ceased to be fully true in respect to the philosophers of Athens: and it became less and less true with each succeeding century. New foreign centres of rhetoric and literature — Asiatic and Alexandrian Hellenism — were fostered into importance by regal encouragement. Plato and Aristotle are thus the special representatives of genuine Hellenic philosophy. The remarkable intellectual ascendancy acquired by them in their own day, and maintained over succeeding centuries, was xvone main reason why the Hellenic vein was enabled so long to maintain itself, though in impoverished condition, against adverse influences from the East, ever increasing in force. Plato and Aristotle outlasted all their Pagan successors — successors at once less purely Hellenic and less highly gifted. And when Saint Jerome, near 750 years after the decease of Plato, commemorated with triumph the victory of unlettered Christians over the accomplishments and genius of Paganism — he illustrated the magnitude of the victory, by singling out Plato and Aristotle as the representatives of vanquished philosophy.8

7Juvenal iii. 62:—

“Jampridem Syrus in Tiberim defluxit Orontes,” &c.
8The passage is a remarkable one, as marking both the effect produced on a Latin scholar by Hebrew studies, and the neglect into which even the greatest writers of classical antiquity had then fallen (about 400 A.D.).

Hieronymus — Comment. in Epist. ad Galatas, iii. 5, p. 486-487, ed. Venet. 1769:—

“Sed omnem sermonis elegantiam, et Latini sermonis venustatem, stridor lectionis Hebraicæ sordidavit. Nostis enim et ipsæ” (i.e. Paula and Eustochium, to whom his letter is addressed) “quod plus quam quindecim anni sunt, ex quo in manus meas nunquam Tullius, nunquam Maro, nunquam Gentilium literarum quilibet Auctor ascendit: et si quid forte inde, dum loquimur, obrepit, quasi antiqua per nebulam somnii recordamur. Quod autem profecerim ex linguæ illius infatigabili studio, aliorum judicio derelinquo: ego quid in meâ amiserim, scio … Si quis eloquentiam quærit vel declamationibus delectatur, habet in utrâque linguâ Demosthenem et Tullium, Polemonem et Quintilianum. Ecclesia Christi non de Academiâ et Lyceo, sed de vili plebeculâ congregata est.… Quotusquisque nunc Aristotelem legit? Quanti Platonis vel libros novêre vel nomen? Vix in angulis otiosi eos senes recolunt. Rusticanos vero et piscatores nostros totus orbis loquitur, universus mundus sonat.”

 

 

 

 

CONTENTS.
PRE-SOKRATIC PHILOSOPHY.

CHAPTER I.
Speculative Philosophy in Greece, before and in the time of Sokrates.
Change in the political condition of Greece during the life of Plato	1
Early Greek mind, satisfied with the belief in polytheistic personal agents, as the real producing causes of phenomena	2
Belief in such agency continued among the general public, even after the various sects of philosophy had arisen	3
Thales, the first Greek who propounded the hypothesis of physical agency in place of personal. Water, the primordial substance, or ἀρχή	4
Anaximander — laid down as ἀρχή the Infinite or Indeterminate — generation of the elements out of it, by evolution of latent, fundamental contraries — astronomical and geological doctrines	ib.
Anaximenes — adopted Air as ἀρχή — rise of substances out of it, by condensation and rarefaction	7
Pythagoras — his life and career — Pythagorean brotherhood — great political influence which it acquired among the Greco-Italian cities — incurred great enmity, and was violently put down	8
The Pythagoreans continue as a recluse sect, without political power	9
Doctrine of the Pythagoreans — Number the Essence of Things	ib.
The Monas — ἀρχή, or principle of Number — geometrical conception of number — symbolical attributes of the first ten numbers, especially of the Dekad	11
Pythagorean Kosmos and Astronomy — geometrical and harmonic laws guiding the movements of the cosmical bodies	12
Music of the Spheres	14
Pythagorean list of fundamental Contraries — Ten opposing pairs	ib.
Eleatic philosophy — Xenophanes	16
His censures upon the received Theogony and religious rites	ib.
His doctrine of Pankosmism; or Pantheism — the whole Kosmos is Ens Unum or God — Ἓν καὶ Πᾶν. Non-Ens inadmissible	17
Scepticism of Xenophanes — complaint of philosophy as unsatisfactory	18
His conjectures on physics and astronomy	ib.
Parmenides continues the doctrine of Xenophanes — Ens Parmenideum, self-existent, eternal, unchangeable, extended — Non-Ens, an unmeaning phrase	19
He recognises a region of opinion, phenomenal and relative, apart from Ens	20
Parmenidean ontology — stands completely apart from phenomenology	21
Parmenidean phenomenology — relative and variable	23
Parmenides recognises no truth, but more or less of probability, in phenomenal explanations. — His physical and astronomical conjectures	24
Herakleitus — his obscure style, impressive metaphors, confident and contemptuous dogmatism	26
Doctrine of Herakleitus — perpetual process of generation and destruction — everything flows, nothing stands — transition of the elements into each other backwards and forwards	27
Variety of metaphors employed by Herakleitus, signifying the same general doctrine	28
Nothing permanent except the law of process and implication of contraries — the transmutative force. Fixity of particulars is an illusion for the most part: so far as it exists, it is a sin against the order of Nature	29
Illustrations by which Herakleitus symbolized his perpetual force, destroying and generating	30
Water — Intermediate between Fire (Air) and Earth	31
Sun and Stars — not solid bodies, but meteoric aggregations dissipated and renewed — Eclipses — ἐκπύρωσις, or destruction of the Kosmos by fire	32
His doctrines respecting the human soul and human knowledge. All wisdom resided in the Universal Reason — individual Reason is worthless	34
By Universal Reason, he did not mean the Reason of most men as it is, but as it ought to be	35
Herakleitus at the opposite pole from Parmenides	37
Empedokles — his doctrine of the four elements and two moving or restraining forces	ib.
Construction of the Kosmos from these elements and forces — action and counteraction of love and enmity. The Kosmos alternately made and unmade	38
Empedoklean predestined cycle of things — complete empire of Love Sphærus — Empire of Enmity — disengagement or separation of the elements — astronomy and meteorology	39
Formation of the Earth, of Gods, men, animals, and plants	41
Physiology of Empedokles — Procreation — Respiration — movement of the blood	43
Doctrine of effluvia and pores — explanation of perceptions — intercommunication of the elements with the sentient subject — like acting upon like	44
Sense of vision	45
Senses of hearing, smell, taste	46
Empedokles declared that justice absolutely forbade the killing of anything that had life. His belief in the metempsychosis. Sufferings of life, are an expiation for wrong done during an antecedent life. Pretensions to magical power	46
Complaint of Empedokles on the impossibility of finding out truth	47
Theory of Anaxagoras denied — generation and destruction — recognised only mixture and severance of pre-existing kinds of matter	48
Homœomeries — small particles of diverse kinds of matter, all mixed together	ib.
First condition of things all — the primordial varieties of matter were huddled together in confusion. Νοῦς or reason, distinct from all of them, supervened and acted upon this confused mass, setting the constituent particles in movement	49
Movement of rotation in the mass, originated by Νοῦς on a small scale, but gradually extending itself. Like particles congregate together — distinguishable aggregates are formed	50
Nothing (except Νοῦς) can be entirely pure or unmixed; but other things may be comparatively pure. Flesh, Bone, &c., are purer than Air or Earth	51
Theory of Anaxagoras, compared with that of Empedokles	52
Suggested partly by the phenomena of of animal nutrition	53
Chaos common to both Empedokles and Anaxagoras: moving agency, different in one from the other theory	54
Νοῦς, or mind, postulated by Anaxagoras — how understood by later writers — how intended by Anaxagoras himself	ib.
Plato and Aristotle blame Anaxagoras for deserting his own theory	56
Astronomy and physics of Anaxagoras	57
His geology, meteorology, physiology	58
The doctrines of Anaxagoras were regarded as offensive and impious	59
Diogenes of Apollonia recognises one primordial element	60
Air was the primordial, universal element	61
Air possessed numerous and diverse properties; was eminently modifiable	ib.
Physiology of Diogenes — his description of the veins in the human body	62
Kosmology and Meteorology	64
Leukippus and Demokritus — Atomic theory	65
Long life, varied travels, and numerous compositions, of Demokritus	ib.
Relation between the theory of Demokritus and that of Parmenides	66
Demokritean theory — Atoms Plena and Vacua — Ens and Non-Ens	67
Primordial atoms differed only in magnitude, figure, position, and arrangement — they had no qualities, but their movements and combinations generated qualities	69
Combination of atoms — generating different qualities in the compound	70
All atoms essentially separate from each other	71
All properties of objects, except weight and hardness, were phenomenal and relative to the observer. Sensation could give no knowledge of the real and absolute	ib.
Reason alone gave true and real knowledge, but very little of it was attainable	72
No separate force required to set the atoms in motion — they moved by an inherent force of their own. Like atoms naturally tend towards like. Rotatory motion, the capital fact of the Kosmos	72
Researches of Demokritus on zoology and animal generation	75
His account of mind — he identified it with heat or fire, diffused throughout animals, plants, and nature generally. Mental particles intermingled throughout all frame with corporeal particles	ib.
Different mental aptitudes attached to different parts of the body	76
Explanation of different sensations and perceptions. Colours	77
Vision caused by the outflow of effluvia or images from objects. Hearing	78
Difference of tastes — how explained	ib.
Thought or intelligence — was produced by influx of atoms from without	79
Sensation, obscure knowledge relative to the sentient: Thought, genuine knowledge — absolute, or object per se	80
Idola or images were thrown off from objects, which determined the tone of thoughts, feelings, dreams, divinations, &c.	81
Universality of Demokritus — his ethical views	82
 
 
 
CHAPTER II.
General Remarks on the Earlier Philosophers — Growth of Dialectic — Zeno and Gorgias.
Variety of sects and theories — multiplicity of individual authorities is the characteristic of Greek philosophy	84
These early theorists are not known from their own writings, which have been lost. Importance of the information of Aristotle about them	85
Abundance of speculative genius and invention — a memorable fact in the Hellenic mind	86
Difficulties which a Grecian philosopher had to overcome — prevalent view of Nature, established, impressive, and misleading	ib.
Views of the Ionic philosophers — compared with the more recent abstractions of Plato and Aristotle	87
Parmenides and Pythagoras — more nearly akin to Plato and Aristotle	89
Advantage derived from this variety of constructive imagination among the Greeks	90
All these theories were found in circulation by Sokrates, Zeno, Plato, and the dialecticians. Importance of the scrutiny of negative Dialectic	91
The early theorists were studied, along with Plato and Aristotle, in the third and second centuries B.C.	92
Negative attribute common to all the early theorists — little or no dialectic	93
Zeno of Elea — Melissus	ib.
Zeno’s Dialectic — he refuted the opponents of Parmenides, by showing that their assumptions led to contradictions and absurdities	93
Consequences of their assumption of Entia Plura Discontinua. Reductiones ad absurdum	94
Each thing must exist in its own place — Grain of millet not sonorous	95
Zenonian arguments in regard to motion	97
General purpose and result of the Zenonian Dialectic. Nothing is knowable except the relative	98
Mistake of supposing Zeno’s reductiones ad absurdum of an opponent’s doctrine, to be contradictions of data generalized from experience	99
Zenonian Dialectic — Platonic Parmenides	100
Views of historians of philosophy, respecting Zeno	101
Absolute and relative — the first, unknowable	ib.
Zeno did not deny motion, as a fact, phenomenal and relative	102
Gorgias the Leontine — did not admit the Absolute, even as conceived by Parmenides	103
His reasonings against the Absolute, either as Ens or Entia	ib.
Ens, incogitable and unknowable	104
Ens, even if granted to be knowable, is still incommunicable to others	ib.
Zeno and Gorgias — contrasted with the earlier Grecian philosophers	105
New character of Grecian philosophy — antithesis of affirmative and negative — proof and disproof	ib.
 
 
 
CHAPTER III.
Other Companions of Sokrates.
Influence exercised by Sokrates over his companions	110
Names of those companions	111
Æschines — Oration of Lysias against him	112
Written Sokratic Dialogues — their general character	114
Relations between the companions of Sokrates — Their proceedings after the death of Sokrates	116
No Sokratic school — each of the companions took a line of his own	117
Eukleides of Megara — he blended Parmenides with Sokrates	118
Doctrine of Eukleides about Bonum	119
The doctrine compared to that of Plato — changes in Plato	ib.
Last doctrine of Plato nearly the same as Eukleides	120
Megaric succession of philosophers. Eleian or Eretrian succession	121
Doctrines of Antisthenes and Aristippus — Ethical, not transcendental	122
Preponderance of the negative vein in the Platonic age	123
Harsh manner in which historians of philosophy censure the negative vein	ib.
Negative method in philosophy essential to the controul of the affirmative	ib.
Sokrates — the most persevering and acute Eristic of his age	124
Platonic Parmenides — its extreme negative character	125
The Megarics shared the negative impulse with Sokrates and Plato	126
Eubulides — his logical problems or puzzles — difficulty of solving them — many solutions attempted	128
Real character of the Megaric sophisms, not calculated to deceive, but to guard against deception	129
If the process of theorising be admissible, it must include negative as well as affirmative	130
Logical position of the Megaric philosophers erroneously described by historians of philosophy. Necessity of a complete collection of difficulties	131
Sophisms propounded by Eubulides. 1. Mentiens. 2. The Veiled Man. 3. Sorites. 4. Cornutus	133
Causes of error constant — The Megarics were sentinels against them	135
Controversy of the Megarics with Aristotle about Power. Arguments of Aristotle	ib.
These arguments not valid against the Megarici	136
His argument cited and criticised	137
Potential as distinguished from the Actual — What it is	139
Diodôrus Kronus — his doctrine about τὸ δυνατόν	140
Sophism of Diodôrus — Ὁ Κυριεύων	141
Question between Aristotle and Diodôrus, depends upon whether universal regularity of sequence be admitted or denied	ib.
Conclusion of Diodôrus defended by Hobbes — Explanation given by Hobbes	143
Reasonings of Diodôrus — respecting Hypothetical Propositions — respecting Motion. His difficulties about the Nowof time	145
Motion is always present, past, and future	146
Stilpon of Megara — His great celebrity	147
Menedêmus and the Eretriacs	148
Open speech and licence of censure assumed by Menedêmus	149
Antisthenes took up Ethics principally, but with negative Logic intermingled	ib.
He copied the manner of life of Sokrates, in plainness and rigour	150
Doctrines of Antisthenes exclusively ethical and ascetic. He despised music, literature, and physics	151
Constant friendship of Antisthenes with Sokrates — Xenophontic Symposion	152
Diogenes, successor of Antisthenes — His Cynical perfection — striking effect which he produced	ib.
Doctrines and smart sayings of Diogenes — Contempt of pleasure — training and labour required — indifference to literature and geometry	154
Admiration of Epiktêtus for Diogenes, especially for his consistency in acting out his own ethical creed	157
Admiration excited by the asceticism of the Cynics — Asceticism extreme in the East. Comparison of the Indian Gymnosophists with Diogenes	ib.
The precepts and principles laid down by Sokrates were carried into fullest execution by the Cynics	160
Antithesis between Nature and Law or Convention insisted on by the Indian Gymnosophists	162
The Greek Cynics — an order of ascetic or mendicant friars	163
Logical views of Antisthenes and Diogenes — they opposed the Platonic Ideas	ib.
First protest of Nominalism against Realism	164
Doctrine of Antisthenes about predication — He admits no other predication but identical	165
The same doctrine asserted by Stilpon, after the time of Aristotle	166
Nominalism of Stilpon. His reasons against accidental predication	167
Difficulty of understanding how the same predicate could belong to more than one subject	169
Analogous difficulties in the Platonic Parmenides	ib.
Menedêmus disallowed all negative predications	170
Distinction ascribed to Antisthenes between simple and complex objects. Simple objects undefinable	171
Remarks of Plato on this doctrine	172
Remarks of Aristotle upon the same	ib.
Later Grecian Cynics — Monimus — Krates — Hipparchia	173
Zeno of Kitium in Cyprus	174
Aristippus — life, character, and doctrine	175
Discourse of Sokrates with Aristippus	ib.
Choice of Hêraklês	177
Illustration afforded of the views of Sokrates respecting Good and Evil	ib.
Comparison of the Xenophontic Sokrates with the Platonic Sokrates	178
Xenophontic Sokrates talking to Aristippus — Kalliklês in Platonic Gorgias	179
Language held by Aristippus — his scheme of life	181
Diversified conversations of Sokrates, according to the character of the hearer	182
Conversation between Sokrates and Aristippus about the Good and Beautiful	184
Remarks on the conversation — Theory of Good	185
Good is relative to human beings and wants in the view of Sokrates	ib.
Aristippus adhered to the doctrine of Sokrates	186
Life and dicta of Aristippus — His type of character	ib.
Aristippus acted conformably to the advice of Sokrates	187
Self mastery and independence — the great aspiration of Aristippus	188
Aristippus compared with Antisthenes and Diogenes — Points of agreement and disagreement between them	190
Attachment of Aristippus to ethics and philosophy — contempt for other studies	192
Aristippus taught as a Sophist. His reputation thus acquired procured for him the attentions of Dionysius and others	193
Ethical theory of Aristippus and the Kyrenaic philosophers	195
Prudence — good, by reason of the pleasure which it ensured, and of the pains which it was necessary to avoid. Just and honourable, by law or custom — not by nature	197
Their logical theory — nothing knowable except the phenomenal, our own sensations and feelings — no knowledge of the absolute	197
Doctrines of Antisthenes and Aristippus passed to the Stoics and Epikureans	198
Ethical theory of Aristippus is identical with that of the Platonic Sokrates in the Protagoras	199
Difference in the manner of stating the theory by the two	200
Distinction to be made between a general theory — and the particular application of it made by the theorist to his own tastes and circumstances	201
Kyrenaic theorists after Aristippus	202
Theodôrus — Annikeris — Hegesias	ib.
Hegesias — Low estimation of life — renunciation of pleasure — coincidence with the Cynics	203
Doctrine of Relativity affirmed by the Kyrenaics, as well as by Protagoras	204
 
 
 
CHAPTER IV.
Xenophon.
Xenophon — his character — essentially a man of action and not a theorist — the Sokratic element is in him an accessory	206
Date of Xenophon — probable year of his birth	207
His personal history — He consults Sokrates — takes the opinion of the Delphian oracle	208
His service and command with the Ten Thousand Greeks, afterwards under Agesilaus and the Spartans. — He is banished from Athens	209
His residence at Skillus near Olympia	210
Family of Xenophon — his son Gryllus killed at Mantineia	ib.
Death of Xenophon at Corinth — Story of the Eleian Exegetæ	211
Xenophon different from Plato and the other Sokratic brethren	212
His various works — Memorabilia, Œkonomikus, &c.	213
Ischomachus, hero of the Œkonomikus — ideal of an active citizen, cultivator, husband, house-master, &c.	214
Text upon which Xenophon insists — capital difference between command over subordinates willing and subordinates unwilling	215
Probable circumstances generating these reflections in Xenophon’s mind	215
This text affords subjects for the Hieron and Cyropædia — Name of Sokrates not suitable	216
Hieron — Persons of the dialogue — Simonides and Hieron	ib.
Questions put to Hieron, view taken by Simonides. Answer of Hieron	217
Misery of governing unwilling subjects declared by Hieron	218
Advice to Hieron by Simonides — that he should govern well, and thus make himself beloved by his subjects	219
Probable experience had by Xenophon of the feelings at Olympia against Dionysius	220
Xenophon could not have chosen a Grecian despot to illustrate his theory of the happiness of governing willing subjects	222
Cyropædia — blending of Spartan and Persian customs — Xenophon’s experience of Cyrus the Younger	ib.
Portrait of Cyrus the Great — his education — Preface to the Cyropædia	223
Xenophon does not solve his own problem — The governing aptitude and popularity of Cyrus come from nature, not from education	225
Views of Xenophon about public and official training of all citizens	226
Details of (so called) Persian education — Severe discipline — Distribution of four ages	227
Evidence of the good effect of this discipline — Hard and dry condition of the body	228
Exemplary obedience of Cyrus to the public discipline — He had learnt justice well — His award about the two coats — Lesson inculcated upon him by the Justice-Master	229
Xenophon’s conception of the Sokratic problems — He does not recognise the Sokratic order of solution of those problems	230
Definition given by Sokrates of Justice — Insufficient to satisfy the exigencies of the Sokratic Elenchus	231
Biography of Cyrus — constant military success earned by suitable qualities — Variety of characters and situations	232
Generous and amiable qualities of Cyrus. Abradates and Pantheia	233
Scheme of government devised by Cyrus when his conquests are completed — Oriental despotism, wisely arranged	234
Persian present reality — is described by Xenophon as thoroughly depraved, in striking contrast to the establishment of Cyrus	236
Xenophon has good experience of military and equestrian proceedings — No experience of finance and commerce	236
Discourse of Xenophon on Athenian finance and the condition of Athens. His admiration of active commerce and variety of pursuits	ib.
Recognised poverty among the citizens. Plan for improvement	238
Advantage of a large number of Metics. How these may be encouraged	ib.
Proposal to raise by voluntary contributions a large sum to be employed as capital by the city. Distribution of three oboli per head per day to all the citizens	ib.
Purpose and principle of this distribution	240
Visionary anticipations of Xenophon, financial and commercial	241
Xenophon exhorts his countrymen to maintain peace	243
Difference of the latest compositions of Xenophon and Plato, from their point of view in the earlier	244
 
 
 
CHAPTER V.
Life of Plato.
Scanty information about Plato’s life	246
His birth, parentage, and early education	247
Early relations of Plato with Sokrates	248
Plato’s youth — service as a citizen and soldier	249
Period of political ambition	251
He becomes disgusted with politics	252
He retires from Athens after the death of Sokrates — his travels	253
His permanent establishment at Athens — 386 B.C.	ib.
He commences his teaching at the Academy	254
Plato as a teacher — pupils numerous and wealthy, from different cities	255
Visit of Plato to the younger Dionysius at Syracuse, 367 B.C.Second visit to the same — mortifying failure	258
Expedition of Dion against Dionysius — sympathies of Plato and the Academy	259
Success, misconduct, and death of Dion	ib.
Death of Plato, aged 80, 347 B.C.	260
Scholars of Plato — Aristotle	ib.
Little known about Plato’s personal history	262
 
 
 
CHAPTER VI.
Platonic Canon, as Recognised by Thrasyllus.
Platonic Canon — Ancient and modern discussions	264
Canon established by Thrasyllus. Presumption in its favour	265
Fixed residence and school at Athens — founded by Plato and transmitted to successors	ib.
Importance of this foundation. Preservation of Plato’s manuscripts. School library	266
Security provided by the school for distinguishing what were Plato’s genuine writings	267
Unfinished fragments and preparatory sketches, preserved and published after Plato’s death	268
Peripatetic school at the Lykeum — its composition and arrangement	269
Peripatetic school library, its removal from Athens to Skêpsis — its ultimate restitution in a damaged state to Athens, then to Rome	270
Inconvenience to the Peripatetic school from the loss of its library	ib.
Advantage to the Platonic school from having preserved its MSS.	272
Conditions favourable, for preserving the genuine works of Plato	ib.
Historical facts as to their preservation	ib.
Arrangement of them into Trilogies, by Aristophanes	273
Aristophanes, librarian at the Alexandrine library	ib.
Plato’s works in the Alexandrine library, before the time of Aristophanes	274
Kallimachus — predecessor of Aristophanes — his published Tables of authors whose works were in the library	275
Large and rapid accumulation of the Alexandrine Library	ib.
Plato’s works — in the library at the time of Kallimachus	276
First formation of the library — intended as a copy of the Platonic and Aristotelian Μουσεῖα at Athens	277
Favour of Ptolemy Soter towards the philosophers at Athens	279
Demetrius Phalereus — his history and character	ib.
He was chief agent in the first establishment of the Alexandrine Library	280
Proceedings of Demetrius in beginning to collect the library	282
Certainty that the works of Plato and Aristotle were among the earliest acquisitions made by him for the library	283
Large expenses incurred by the Ptolemies for procuring good MSS.	285
Catalogue of Platonic works, prepared by Aristophanes, is trustworthy	ib.
No canonical or exclusive order of the Platonic dialogues, when arranged by Aristophanes	286
Other libraries and literary centres, besides Alexandria, in which spurious Platonic works might get footing	ib.
Other critics, besides Aristophanes, proposed different arrangements of the Platonic dialogues	287
Panætius, the Stoic — considered the Phædon to be spurious — earliest known example of a Platonic dialogue disallowed upon internal grounds	288
Classification of Platonic works by the rhetor Thrasyllus — dramatic — philosophical	289
Dramatic principle — Tetralogies	ib.
Philosophical principle — Dialogues of Search — Dialogues of Exposition	291
Incongruity and repugnance of the two classifications	294
Dramatic principle of classification — was inherited by Thrasyllus from Aristophanes	295
Authority of the Alexandrine library — editions of Plato published, with the Alexandrine critical marks	ib.
Thrasyllus followed the Alexandrine library and Aristophanes, as to genuine Platonic works	296
Ten spurious dialogues, rejected by all other critics as well as by Thrasyllus — evidence that these critics followed the common authority of the Alexandrine library	297
Thrasyllus did not follow an internal sentiment of his own in rejecting dialogues as spurious	298
Results as to the trustworthiness of the Thrasyllean Canon	299
 
 
 
CHAPTER VII.
Platonic Canon, as Appreciated and Modified by Modern Critics.
The Canon of Thrasyllus continued to be generally acknowledged, by the Neo-Platonists, as well as by Ficinus and the succeeding critics after the revival of learning	301
Serranus — his six Syzygies — left the aggregate Canon unchanged, Tennemann — importance assigned to the Phædrus	302
Schleiermacher — new theory about the purposes of Plato. One philosophical scheme, conceived by Plato from the beginning — essential order and interdependence of the dialogues, as contributing to the full execution of this scheme. Some dialogues not constituent items in the series, but lying alongside of it. Order of arrangement	303
Theory of Ast — he denies the reality of any preconceived scheme — considers the dialogues as distinct philosophical dramas	304
His order of arrangement. He admits only fourteen dialogues as genuine, rejecting all the rest	305
Socher agrees with Ast in denying preconceived scheme — his arrangement of the dialogues, differing from both Ast and Schleiermacher — he rejects as spurious Parmenidês, Sophistês, Politikus, Kritias, with many others	306
Schleiermacher and Ast both consider Phædrus and Protagoras as early compositions — Socher puts Protagoras into the second period, Phædrus into the third	307
K. F. Hermann — Stallbaum — both of them consider the Phædrus as a late dialogue — both of them deny preconceived order and system — their arrangements of the dialogues — they admit new and varying philosophical points of view	ib.
They reject several dialogues	309
Steinhart — agrees in rejecting Schleiermacher’s fundamental postulate — his arrangement of the dialogues — considers the Phædrus as late in order — rejects several	ib.
Susemihl — coincides to a great degree with K. F. Hermann — his order of arrangement	310
Edward Munk — adopts a different principle of arrangement, founded upon the different period which each dialogue exhibits of the life, philosophical growth, and old age, of Sokrates — his arrangement, founded on this principle. He distinguishes the chronological order of composition from the place allotted to each dialogue in the systematic plan	311
Views of Ueberweg — attempt to reconcile Schleiermacher and Hermann — admits the preconceived purpose for the later dialogues, composed after the foundation of the school, but not for the earlier	313
His opinions as to authenticity and chronology of the dialogues, He rejects Hippias Major, Erastæ, Theagês, Kleitophon, Parmenidês: he is inclined to reject Euthyphron and Menexenus	314
Other Platonic critics — great dissensions about scheme and order of the dialogues	316
Contrast of different points of view instructive — but no solution has been obtained	ib.
The problem incapable of solution. Extent and novelty of the theory propounded by Schleiermacher — slenderness of his proofs	317
Schleiermacher’s hypothesis includes a preconceived scheme, and a peremptory order of interdependence among the dialogues	318
Assumptions of Schleiermacher respecting the Phædrus inadmissible	319
Neither Schleiermacher, nor any other critic, has as yet produced any tolerable proof for an internal theory of the Platonic dialogues	ib.
Munk’s theory is the most ambitious, and the most gratuitous, next to Schleiermacher’s	320
The age assigned to Sokrates in any dialogue is a circumstance of little moment	ib.
No intentional sequence or interdependence of the dialogues can be made out	322
Principle of arrangement adopted by Hermann is reasonable — successive changes in Plato’s point of view: but we cannot explain either the order or the causes of these changes	ib.
Hermann’s view more tenable than Schleiermacher’s	323
Small number of certainties, or even reasonable presumptions, as to date or order of the dialogues	324
Trilogies indicated by Plato himself	325
Positive dates of all the dialogues — unknown	326
When did Plato begin to compose? Not till after the death of Sokrates	ib.
Reasons for this opinion. Labour of the composition — does not consist with youth of the author	327
Reasons founded on the personality of Sokrates, and his relations with Plato	328
Reasons, founded on the early life, character, and position of Plato	330
Plato’s early life — active by necessity, and to some extent ambitious	331
Plato did not retire from political life until after the restoration of the democracy, nor devote himself to philosophy until after the death of Sokrates	333
All Plato’s dialogues were composed during the fifty-one years after the death of Sokrates	334
The Thrasyllean Canon is more worthy of trust than the modern critical theories by which it has been condemned	335
Unsafe grounds upon which those theories proceed	336
Opinions of Schleiermacher, tending to show this	337
Any true theory of Plato must recognise all his varieties, and must be based upon all the works in the Canon, not upon some to the exclusion of the rest	339
 
 
 
CHAPTER VIII.
Platonic Compositions Generally.
Variety and abundance visible in Plato’s writings	342
Plato both sceptical and dogmatical	ib.
Poetical vein predominant in some compositions, but not in all	343
Form of dialogue — universal to this extent, that Plato never speaks in his own name	344
No one common characteristic pervading all Plato’s works	ib.
The real Plato was not merely a writer of dialogues, but also lecturer and president of a school. In this last important function he is scarcely at all known to us. Notes of his lectures taken by Aristotle	346
Plato’s lectures De Bono obscure and transcendental. Effect which they produced on the auditors	347
They were delivered to miscellaneous auditors. They coincide mainly with what Aristotle states about the Platonic Ideas	348
The lectures De Bono may perhaps have been more transcendental than Plato’s other lectures	349
Plato’s Epistles — in them only he speaks in his own person	ib.
Intentional obscurity of his Epistles in reference to philosophical doctrine	350
Letters of Plato to Dionysius II. about philosophy. His anxiety to confine philosophy to discussion among select and prepared minds	351
He refuses to furnish any written, authoritative exposition of his own philosophical doctrine	352
He illustrates his doctrine by the successive stages of geometrical teaching. Difficulty to avoid the creeping in of error at each of these stages	353
No written exposition can keep clear of these chances of error	355
Relations of Plato with Dionysius II. and the friends of the deceased Dion. Pretensions of Dionysius to understand and expound Plato’s doctrines	ib.
Impossibility of teaching by written exposition assumed by Plato; the assumption intelligible in his day	357
Standard by which Plato tested the efficacy of the expository process — Power of sustaining a Sokratic cross-examination	358
Plato never published any of the lectures which he delivered at the Academy	ib.
Plato would never publish his philosophical opinions in his own name; but he may have published them in the dialogues under the name of others	360
Groups into which the dialogues admit of being thrown	361
Distribution made by Thrasyllus defective, but still useful — Dialogues of Search, Dialogues of Exposition	ib.
Dialogues of Exposition — present affirmative result. Dialogues of Search are wanting in that attribute	362
The distribution coincides mainly with that of Aristotle — Dialectic, Demonstrative	363
Classification of Thrasyllus in its details. He applies his own principles erroneously	364
The classification, as it would stand, if his principles were applied correctly	365
Preponderance of the searching and testing dialogues over the expository and dogmatical	366
Dialogues of Search — sub-classes among them recognised by Thrasyllus — Gymnastic and Agonistic, &c.	ib.
Philosophy, as now understood, includes authoritative teaching, positive results, direct proofs	ib.
The Platonic Dialogues of Search disclaim authority and teaching — assume truth to be unknown to all alike — follow a process devious as well as fruitless	367
The questioner has no predetermined course, but follows the lead given by the respondent in his answers	ib.
Relation of teacher and learner. Appeal to authority is suppressed	368
In the modern world the search for truth is put out of sight. Every writer or talker professes to have already found it, and to proclaim it to others	369
The search for truth by various interlocutors was a recognised process in the Sokratic age. Acute negative Dialectic of Sokrates	370
Negative procedure supposed to be represented by the Sophists and the Megarici; discouraged and censured by historians of philosophy	371
Vocation of Sokrates and Plato for the negative procedure: absolute necessity of it as a condition of reasoned truth. Parmenidês of Plato	372
Sokrates considered the negative procedure to be valuable by itself, and separately. His theory of the natural state of the human mind; not ignorance, but false persuasion of knowledge	373
Declaration of Sokrates in the Apology; his constant mission to make war against the false persuasion of knowledge	374
Opposition of feeling between Sokrates and the Dikasts	375
The Dialogues of Search present an end in themselves. Mistake of supposing that Plato had in his mind an ulterior affirmative end, not declared	ib.
False persuasion of knowledge — had reference to topics social, political, ethical	376
To those topics, on which each community possesses established dogmas, laws, customs, sentiments, consecrated and traditional, peculiar to itself. The local creed, which is never formally proclaimed or taught, but is enforced unconsciously by every one upon every one else. Omnipotence of King Nomos	377
Small minority of exceptional individual minds, who do not yield to the established orthodoxy, but insist on exercising their own judgment	382
Early appearance of a few free-judging individuals, or free-thinkers in Greece	384
Rise of Dialectic — Effect of the Drama and the Dikastery	386
Application of Negative scrutiny to ethical and social topics by Sokrates	ib.
Emphatic assertion by Sokrates of the right of satisfaction for his own individual reason	386
Aversion of the Athenian public to the negative procedure of Sokrates. Mistake of supposing that that negative procedure belongs peculiarly to the Sophists and the Megarici	387
The same charges which the historians of philosophy bring against the Sophists were brought by contemporary Athenians against Sokrates. They represent the standing dislike of free inquiry, usual with an orthodox public	388
Aversion towards Sokrates aggravated by his extreme publicity of speech. His declaration, that false persuasion of knowledge is universal; must be understood as a basis in appreciating Plato’s Dialogues of Search	393
Result called Knowledge, which Plato aspires to. Power of going through a Sokratic cross-examination; not attainable except through the Platonic process and method	396
Platonic process adapted to Platonic topics — man and society	397
Plato does not provide solutions for the difficulties which he has raised. The affirmative and negative veins are in him completely distinct. His dogmas are enunciations à priori of some impressive sentiment	399
Hypothesis — that Plato had solved all his own difficulties for himself; but that he communicated the solution only to a few select auditors in oral lectures — Untenable	401
Characteristic of the oral lectures — that they were delivered in Plato’s own name. In what other respects they departed from the dialogues, we cannot say	402
Apart from any result, Plato has an interest in the process of search and debate per se. Protracted enquiry is a valuable privilege, not a tiresome obligation	403
Plato has done more than any one else to make the process of enquiry interesting to others, as it was to himself	405
Process of generalisation always kept in view and illustrated throughout the Platonic Dialogues of Search — general terms and propositions made subjects of conscious analysis	406
The Dialogues must be reviewed as distinct compositions by the same author, illustrating each other, but without assignable inter-dependence	407
Order of the Dialogues, chosen for bringing them under separate review. Apology will come first; Timæus, Kritias, Leges, Epinomis last	ib.
Kriton and Euthyphron come immediately after Apology. The intermediate dialogues present no convincing grounds for any determinate order	408
 
 
 
CHAPTER IX.
Apology of Sokrates.
The Apology is the real defence delivered by Sokrates before the Dikasts, reported by Plato, without intentional transformation	410
Even if it be Plato’s own composition, it comes naturally first in the review of his dialogues	411
General character of the Apology — Sentiments entertained towards Sokrates at Athens	412
Declaration from the Delphian oracle respecting the wisdom of Sokrates, interpreted by him as a mission to cross-examine the citizens generally — The oracle is proved to be true	413
False persuasion of wisdom is universal — the God alone is wise	414
Emphatic assertion by Sokrates of the cross-examining mission imposed upon him by the God	ib.
He had devoted his life to the execution of this mission, and he intended to persevere in spite of obloquy or danger	416
He disclaims the function of a teacher — he cannot teach, for he is not wiser than others. He differs from others by being conscious of his own ignorance	ib.
He does not know where competent teachers can be found. He is perpetually seeking for them, but in vain	417
Impression made by the Platonic Apology on Zeno the Stoic	418
Extent of efficacious influence claimed by Sokrates for himself — exemplified by Plato throughout the Dialogues of Search — Xenophon and Plato enlarge it	ib.
Assumption by modern critics, that Sokrates is a positive teacher, employing indirect methods for the inculcation of theories of his own	419
Incorrectness of such assumption — the Sokratic Elenchus does not furnish a solution, but works upon the mind of the respondent, stimulating him to seek for a solution of his own	420
Value and importance of this process — stimulating active individual minds to theorise each for itself	421
View taken by Sokrates about death. Other men profess to know what it is, and think it a great misfortune: he does not know	422
Reliance of Sokrates on his own individual reason, whether agreeing or disagreeing with others	423
Formidable efficacy of established public beliefs, generated without any ostensible author	424
 
 
 
CHAPTER X.
Kriton.
General purpose of the Kriton	425
Subject of the dialogue — interlocutors	ib.
Answer of Sokrates to the appeal made by Kriton	426
He declares that the judgment of the general public is not worthy of trust: he appeals to the judgment of the one Expert, who is wise on the matter in debate	ib.
Principles laid down by Sokrates for determining the question with Kriton. Is the proceeding recommended just or unjust? Never in any case to act unjustly	427
Sokrates admits that few will agree with him, and that most persons hold the opposite opinion: but he affirms that the point is cardinal	ib.
Pleading supposed to be addressed by the Laws of Athens to Sokrates, demanding from him implicit obedience	428
Purpose of Plato in this pleading — to present the dispositions of Sokrates in a light different from that which the Apology had presented — unqualified submission instead of defiance	ib.
Harangue of Sokrates delivered in the name of the Laws, would have been applauded by all the democratical patriots of Athens	430
The harangue insists upon topics common to Sokrates with other citizens, overlooking the specialties of his character	431
Still Sokrates is represented as adopting the resolution to obey, from his own conviction; by a reason which weighs with him, but which would not weigh with others	ib.
The harangue is not a corollary from this Sokratic reason, but represents feelings common among Athenian citizens	432
Emphatic declaration of the authority of individual reason and conscience, for the individual himself	ib.
The Kriton is rhetorical, not dialectical. Difference between Rhetoric and Dialectic	433
The Kriton makes powerful appeal to the emotions, but overlooks the ratiocinative difficulties, or supposes them to be solved	ib.
Incompetence of the general public or ἰδιῶται — appeal to the professional Expert	435
Procedure of Sokrates after this comparison has been declared — he does not name who the trustworthy Expert is	ib.
Sokrates acts as the Expert himself: he finds authority in his own reason and conscience	436
 
 
 
CHAPTER XI.
Euthyphron.
Situation supposed in the dialogue — interlocutors	437
Indictment by Melêtus against Sokrates — Antipathy of the Athenians towards those who spread heretical opinions	437
Euthyphron recounts that he is prosecuting an indictment for murder against his own father — Displeasure of his friends at the proceeding	438
Euthyphron expresses full confidence that this step of his is both required and warranted by piety or holiness. Sokrates asks him — What is Holiness?	439
Euthyphron alludes to the punishment of Uranus by his son Kronus and of Kronus by his son Zeus	440
Sokrates intimates his own hesitation in believing these stories of discord among the Gods. Euthyphron declares his full belief in them, as well as in many similar narratives, not in so much circulation	ib.
Bearing of this dialogue on the relative position of Sokrates and the Athenian public	441
Dramatic moral set forth by Aristophanes against Sokrates and the freethinkers, is here retorted by Plato against the orthodox champion	442
Sequel of the dialogue — Euthyphron gives a particular example as the reply to a general question	444
Such mistake frequent in dialectic discussion	ib.
First general answer given by Euthyphron — that which is pleasing to the Gods is holy. Comments of Sokrates thereon	445
To be loved by the Gods is not the essence of the Holy — they love it because it is holy. In what then does its essence consist? Perplexity of Euthyphron	446
Sokrates suggests a new answer. The Holy is one branch or variety of the Just. It is that branch which concerns ministration by men to the Gods	447
Ministration to the Gods? How? To what purpose?	ib.
Holiness — rectitude in sacrifice and prayer — right traffic between men and the Gods	448
This will not stand — the Gods gain nothing — they receive from men marks of honour and gratitude — they are pleased therewith — the Holy, therefore, must be that which is pleasing to the Gods	448
This is the same explanation which was before declared insufficient. A fresh explanation is required from Euthyphron. He breaks off the dialogue	ib.
Sokratic spirit of the dialogue — confessed ignorance applying the Elenchus to false persuasion of knowledge	449
The questions always difficult, often impossible to answer. Sokrates is unable to answer them, though he exposes the bad answers of others	ib.
Objections of Theopompus to the Platonic procedure	450
Objective view of Ethics, distinguished by Sokrates from the subjective	451
Subjective unanimity coincident with objective dissent	ib.
Cross-examination brought to bear upon this mental condition by Sokrates — position of Sokrates and Plato in regard to it	452
The Holy — it has an essential characteristic — what is this? — not the fact that it is loved by the Gods — this is true, but is not its constituent essence	454
Views of the Xenophontic Sokrates respecting the Holy — different from those of the Platonic Sokrates — he disallows any common absolute general type of the Holy — he recognises an indefinite variety of types, discordant and relative	ib.
The Holy a branch of the Just — not tenable as a definition, but useful as bringing to view the subordination of logical terms	455
The Euthyphron represents Plato’s way of replying to the charge of impiety, preferred by Melêtus against Sokrates — comparison with Xenophon’s way of replying	ib.
 

 

 

 

 

 

PLATO.
 

 

 

PRE-SOKRATIC PHILOSOPHY.
 

 

CHAPTER I.
 

SPECULATIVE PHILOSOPHY IN GREECE, BEFORE AND IN THE TIME OF SOKRATES.
Change in the political condition of Greece during the life of Plato.

The life of Plato extends from 427-347 B.C. He was born in the fourth year of the Peloponnesian war, and he died at the age of 80, about the time when Olynthus was taken by the Macedonian Philip. The last years of his life thus witnessed a melancholy breach in the integrity of the Hellenic world, and even exhibited data from which a far-sighted Hellenic politician might have anticipated something like the coming subjugation, realised afterwards by the victory of Philip at Chæroneia. But during the first half of Plato’s life, no such anticipations seemed even within the limits of possibility. The forces of Hellas, though discordant among themselves, were superabundant as to defensive efficacy, and were disposed rather to aggression against foreign enemies, especially against a country then so little formidable as Macedonia. It was under this contemplation of Hellas self-acting and self-sufficing — an aggregate of cities, each a political unit, yet held together by strong ties of race, language, religion, and common feelings of various kinds — that the mind of Plato was both formed and matured.

In appreciating, as far as our scanty evidence allows, the circumstances which determined his intellectual and speculative 2character, I shall be compelled to touch briefly upon the various philosophical theories which were propounded anterior to Sokrates — as well as to repeat some matters already brought to view in the sixteenth, sixty-seventh, and sixty-eighth chapters of my History of Greece.

Early Greek mind, satisfied with the belief in polytheistic personal agents as the real producing causes of phenomena.

To us, as to Herodotus, in his day, the philosophical speculation of the Greeks begins with the theology and cosmology of Homer and Hesiod. The series of divine persons and attributes, and generations presented by these poets, and especially the Theogony of Hesiod, supplied at one time full satisfaction to the curiosity of the Greeks respecting the past history and present agencies of the world around them. In the emphatic censure bestowed by Herakleitus on the poets and philosophers who preceded him, as having much knowledge but no sense — he includes Hesiod, as well as Pythagoras, Xenophanes, and Hekatæus: upon Homer and Archilochus he is still more severe, declaring that they ought to be banished from the public festivals and scourged.1 The sentiment of curiosity as it then existed was only secondary and derivative, arising out of some of the strong primary or personal sentiments — fear or hope, antipathy or sympathy, — impression of present weakness, — unsatisfied appetites and longings, — wonder and awe under the presence of the terror-striking phenomena of nature, &c. Under this state of the mind, when problems suggested themselves for solution, the answers afforded by Polytheism gave more satisfaction than could have been afforded by any other hypothesis. Among the indefinite multitude of invisible, personal, quasi-human agents, with different attributes and dispositions, some one could be found to account for every perplexing phenomenon. The question asked was, not What are the antecedent conditions or causes of rain, thunder, or earthquakes, but Who rains and thunders? Who produces earthquakes?2 The Hesiodic Greek was satisfied when informed that it was Zeus or Poseidon. To be told of physical agencies would have appeared to him not merely 3unsatisfactory, but absurd, ridiculous, and impious. It was the task of a poet like Hesiod to clothe this general polytheistic sentiment in suitable details: to describe the various Gods, Goddesses, Demigods, and other quasi-human agents, with their characteristic attributes, with illustrative adventures, and with sufficient relations of sympathy and subordination among each other, to connect them in men’s imaginations as members of the same brotherhood. Okeanus, Gæa, Uranus, Helios, Selênê, — Zeus, Poseidon, Hades — Apollo and Artemis, Dionysus and Aphroditê — these and many other divine personal agents, were invoked as the producing and sustaining forces in nature, the past history of which was contained in their filiations or contests. Anterior to all of them, the primordial matter or person, was Chaos.

1Diogen. Laert. ix. 1. Πολυμαθίη νόον οὐ διδάσκει· (οὐ φύει, ap. Proclum in Platon. Timæ. p. 31 F., p. 72, ed. Schneider), Ἡσίοδον γὰρ ἂν ἐδίδαξε καὶ Πυθαγόρην, αὐτίς τε Ξενοφάνεά τε καὶ Ἑκαταῖον· τόν θ’ Ὅμηρον ἔφασκεν ἄξιον εἶναι ἐκ τῶν ἀγώνων ἐκβάλλεσθαι καὶ ῥαπίζεσθαι, καὶ Ἀρχίλοχον ὁμοίως.

2Aristophanes, Nubes, 368, Ἀλλὰ τίς ὕει; Herodot. vii. 129.

Belief in such agency continued among the general public, even after the various sects of philosophy had arisen.

Hesiod represents the point of view ancient and popular (to use Aristotle’s expression3) among the Greeks, from whence all their philosophical speculation took its departure; and which continued throughout their history, to underlie all the philosophical speculations, as the faith of the ordinary public who neither frequented the schools nor conversed with philosophers. While Aristophanes, speaking in the name of this popular faith, denounces and derides Sokrates as a searcher, alike foolish and irreligious, after astronomical and physical causes — Sokrates himself not only denies the truth of the allegation, but adopts as his own the sentiment which dictated it; proclaiming Anaxagoras and others to be culpable for prying into mysteries which the Gods intentionally kept hidden.4 The repugnance felt by a numerous public, against scientific explanation — as eliminating the divine agents and substituting in their place irrational causes,5 — was a permanent fact of which philosophers were always obliged to take account, and 4which modified the tone of their speculations without being powerful enough to repress them.

3Aristotel. Metaphys. A. 8, p. 989, a. 10. Φησὶ δέ καὶ Ἡσίοδος τὴν γῆν πρώτην γενέσθαι τῶν σωμάτων· οὕτως ἀρχαίαν καὶ δημοτικὴν συμβέβηκεν εἶναι τὴν ὑπόληψιν.

Again in the beginning of the second book of the Meteorologica, Aristotle contrasts the ancient and primitive theology with the “human wisdom” which grew up subsequently: Οἱ ἀρχαῖοι καὶ διατρίβοντες περὶ τὰς θεολογίας — οἱ σοφώτεροι τὴν ἀνθρωπίνην σοφίαν (Meteor, ii. i. p. 353, a.)

4Xenophon, Memor. iv. 7, 5; i. 1, 11-15. Plato, Apolog. p. 26 E.

5Plutarch, Nikias, c. 23. Οὐ γὰρ ἠνειχοντο τοὺς φυσικοὺς καὶ μετεωρολέσχας τότε καλουμένους, ὡς εἰς αἰτίας ἀλόγους καὶ δυνάμεις ἀπρονοήτους καὶ κατηναγκασμένα πάθη διατρίβοντας τὸ θεῖον.

Thales, the first Greek who propounded the hypothesis of physical agency in place of personal. Water, the primordial substance, or ἀρχή.

Even in the sixth century B.C., when the habit of composing in prose was first introduced, Pherekydes and Akusilaus still continued in their prose the theogony, or the mythical cosmogony, of Hesiod and the other old Poets: while Epimenides and the Orphic poets put forth different theogonies, blended with mystical dogmas. It was, however, in the same century, and in the first half of it, that Thales of Miletus (620-560 B.C.), set the example of a new vein of thought. Instead of the Homeric Okeanus, father of all things, Thales assumed the material substance, Water, as the primordial matter and the universal substratum of everything in nature. By various transmutations, all other substances were generated from water; all of them, when destroyed, returned into water. Like the old poets, Thales conceived the surface of the earth to be flat and round; but he did not, like them, regard it as stretching down to the depths of Tartarus: he supposed it to be flat and shallow, floating on the immensity of the watery expanse or Ocean.6 This is the main feature of the Thaletian hypothesis, about which, however, its author seems to have left no writing. Aristotle says little about Thales, and that little in a tone of so much doubt,7 that we can hardly confide in the opinions and discoveries ascribed to him by others.8

6Aristotel. Metaphys. A. 3, p. 983, b. 21. De Cœlo, ii. 13, p. 294, a. 29. Θαλῆς, ὁ τῆς τοιαύτης ἀρχηγὸς φιλοσοφίας, &c. Seneca, Natural. Quæst. vi. 6.

Pherekydes, Epimenides, &c., were contemporary with the earliest Ionic philosophers (Brandis, Handbuch der Gesch. der Gr.-Röm. Phil., s. 23).

According to Plutarch (Aquæ et Ignis Comparatio, p. 955, init.), most persons believed that Hesiod, by the word Chaos, meant Water. Zeno the Stoic adopted this interpretation (Schol. Apollon. Rhod. i. 498). On the other hand, Bacchylides the poet, and after him Zenodotus, called Air by the name Chaos (Schol. Hesiod. Theogon. p. 392, Gaisf.). Hermann considers that the Hesiodic Chaos means empty space (see note, Brandis, Handb. d. Gesch. d. Gr.-Röm. Phil., vol. i., p. 71).

7See two passages in Aristotle De Animâ, i. 2, and i. 5.

8Cicero says (De Naturâ Deorum, i. 10), “Thales — aquam dixit esse initium rerum, Deum autem eam mentem, quæ ex aquâ cuncta fingeret.” That the latter half of this Ciceronian statement, respecting the doctrines of Thales, is at least unfounded, and probably erroneous, is recognised by Preller, Brandis, and Zeller. Preller, Histor. Philos. Græc. ex Fontium Locis Contexta, sect. 15; Brandis, Handbuch der Gr.-R. Philos. sect. 31, p. 118; Zeller, Die Philos. der Griechen, vol. i., p. 151, ed. 2.

It is stated by Herodotus that Thales foretold the year of the memorable solar eclipse which happened during the battle between the Medes and the Lydians (Herod. i. 74). This eclipse seems to have occurred in B.C. 585, according to the best recent astronomical enquiries by Professor Airy.

Anaximander — laid down as ἀρχή the Infinite or indeterminate — generation of the elements out of it, by evolution of latent fundamental contraries — astronomical and geological doctrines.

The next of the Ionic philosophers, and the first who published 5his opinions in writing, was Anaximander, of Miletus, the countryman and younger contemporary of Thales (570-520 B.C.). He too searched for an Ἀρχή, a primordial Something or principle, self-existent and comprehending in its own nature a generative, motive, or transmutative force. Not thinking that water, or any other known and definite substance fulfilled these conditions, he adopted as the foundation of his hypothesis a substance which he called the Infinite or Indeterminate. Under this name he conceived Body simply, without any positive or determinate properties, yet including the fundamental contraries, Hot, Cold, Moist, Dry, &c., in a potential or latent state, including farther a self-changing and self-developing force,9 and being moreover immortal and indestructible.10 By this inherent force, and by the evolution of one or more of these dormant contrary qualities, were generated the various definite substances of nature — Air, Fire, Water, &c. But every determinate substance thus generated was, after a certain time, destroyed and resolved again into the Indeterminate mass. “From thence all substances proceed, and into this they relapse: each in its turn thus making atonement to the others, and suffering the penalty of injustice.”11 Anaximander conceived separate existence (determinate and particular existence, apart from the indeterminate and universal) as an unjust privilege, not to be tolerated 6except for a time, and requiring atonement even for that. As this process of alternate generation and destruction was unceasing, so nothing less than an Infinite could supply material for it. Earth, Water, Air, Fire, having been generated, the two former, being cold and heavy, remained at the bottom, while the two latter ascended. Fire formed the exterior circle, encompassing the air like bark round a tree: this peripheral fire was broken up and aggregated into separate masses, composing the sun, moon, and stars. The sphere of the fixed stars was nearest to the earth: that of the moon next above it: that of the sun highest of all. The sun and moon were circular bodies twenty-eight times larger than the earth: but the visible part of them was only an opening in the centre, through which12 the fire or light behind was seen. All these spheres revolved round the earth, which was at first semi-fluid or mud, but became dry and solid through the heat of the sun. It was in shape like the section of a cylinder, with a depth equal to one-third of its breadth or horizontal surface, on which men and animals live. It was in the centre of the Kosmos; it remained stationary because of its equal distance from all parts of the outer revolving spheres; there was no cause determining it to move upward rather than downward or sideways, therefore it remained still.13 Its exhalations nourished the fire in the peripheral regions of the Kosmos. Animals were produced from the primitive muddy fluid of the earth: first, fishes and other lower animals — next, in process of time man, when circumstances permitted his development.14 We 7learn farther respecting the doctrines of Anaximander, that he proposed physical explanations of thunder, lightning, and other meteorological phenomena:15 memorable as the earliest attempt of speculation in that department, at a time when such events inspired the strongest religious awe, and were regarded as the most especial manifestations of purposes of the Gods. He is said also to have been the first who tried to represent the surface and divisions of the earth on a brazen plate, the earliest rudiment of a map or chart.16

9See Zeller, Philosophie der Griechen, vol. i. p. 157, seq., ed. 2nd.

Anaximander conceived τὸ ἀπειρον as infinite matter; the Pythagoreans and Plato conceived it as a distinct nature by itself — as a subject, not as a predicate (Aristotel. Physic. iii. 4, p. 203, a. 2).

About these fundamental contraries, Aristotle says (Physic. i. 4, init.): οἱ δ’ ἐκ του ἑνὸς ἐνούσας τὰς ἐναντιότητας ἐκκρίνεσθαι, ὥσπερ Ἀναξίμανδρός φησι. Which Simplikius explains, ἐναντιότητές εἰσι, θερμὸν, ψυχρὸν, ξηρὸν, ὑγρὸν, καὶ αἱ ἄλλαι, &c.

Compare also Schleiermacher, “Ueber Anaximandros,” in his Vermischte Schriften, vol. ii. p. 178, seq. Deutinger (Gesch. der Philos. vol. i. p. 165, Regensb. 1852) maintains that this ἔκρισις of contraries is at variance with the hypothesis of Anaximander, and has been erroneously ascribed to him. But the testimony is sufficiently good to outweigh this suspicion.

10Anaximander spoke of his ἄπειρον as ἀθάνατον καὶ ἀνώλεθρον (Aristotel. Physic. iii. 4, 7, p. 203, b. 15).

11Simplikius ad Aristotel. Physic. fol. 6 a. apud Preller, Histor. Philos. Græco-Rom. § 57, ἐξ ὧν δὲ ἡ γένεσίς ἐστι τοῖς οὖσι, καὶ τὴν φθορὰν εἰς ταὐτὰ γίνεσθαι κατὰ τὸ χρεών· διδόναι γὰρ αὐτὰ τίσιν καὶ δίκην ἀλλήλοις τῆς ἀδικίας κατὰ τὴν τοῦ χρόνου τάξιν. Simplikius remarks upon the poetical character of this phraseology, ποιητικωτέροις ὀνόμασιν αὐτὰ λέγων.

12Origen. Philosophumen. p. 11, ed. Miller; Plutarch ap. Eusebium Præp. Evang. i. 8, xv. 23-46-47; Stobæus Eclog. i. p. 510. Anaximander supposed that eclipses of the sun and moon were caused by the occasional closing of these apertures (Euseb. xv. 50-61). The part of the sun visible to us was, in his opinion, not smaller than the earth, and of the purest fire (Diog. Laert. ii. 1).

Eudêmus, in his history of astronomy, mentioned Anaximander as the first who had discussed the magnitudes and distances of the celestial bodies (Simplikius ad Aristot. De Cœlo, ap. Schol. Brand, p. 497, a. 12).

13Aristotel. Meteorol. ii. 2, p. 355, a. 21, which is referred by Alexander of Aphrodisias to Anaximander; also De Cœlo, ii. 13, p. 295, b. 12.

A doctrine somewhat like it is ascribed even to Thales. See Alexander’s Commentary on Aristotel. Metaphys. i. p. 983, b. 17.

The reason here assigned by Anaximander why the Earth remained still, is the earliest example in Greek philosophy of that fallacy called the principle of the Sufficient Reason, so well analysed and elucidated by Mr. John Stuart Mill, in his System of Logic, book v., ch. 3, sect. 5.

The remarks which Aristotle himself makes upon it are also very interesting, when he cites the opinion of Anaximander. Compare Plato, Phædon, p. 109, c. 132, with the citations in Wyttenbach’s note.

14Plutarch, Placit. Philos. v. 19.

15Plutarch, Placit. Philos. iii. 3; Seneca, Quæst. Nat. ii. 18-19.

16Strabo, i. p. 7. Diogenes Laertius (ii. 1) states that Anaximander affirmed the figure of the earth to be spherical; and Dr. Whewell, in his History of the Inductive Sciences, follows his statement. But Schleiermacher (Ueber Anaximandros, vol. ii. p. 204 of his Sämmtliche Werke) and Gruppe (Die Kosmischen Systeme der Griechen, p. 38) contest this assertion, and prefer that of Plutarch (ap. Eusebium Præp. Evang. i. 8, Placit. Philos. iii. 10), which I have adopted in the text. It is to be remembered that Diogenes himself, in another place (ix. 3, 21), affirms Parmenides to have been the first who propounded the spherical figure of the earth. See the facts upon this subject collected and discussed in the instructive dissertation of L. Oettinger, Die Vorstellungen der Griechen und Römer ueber die Erde als Himmelskörper, p. 38; Freiburg, 1850.

Anaximenes — adopted Air as ἀρχή — rise of substances out of it, by condensation and rarefaction.

The third physical philosopher produced by Miletus, seemingly before the time of her terrible disasters suffered from the Persians after the Ionic revolt between 500-494 B.C., was Anaximenes, who struck out a third hypothesis. He assumed, as the primordial substance, and as the source of all generation or transmutation, Air, eternal in duration, infinite in extent. He thus returned to the principle of the Thaletian theory, selecting for his beginning a known substance, though not the same substance as Thales. To explain how generation of new products was possible (as Anaximander had tried to explain by his theory of evolution of latent contraries), Anaximenes adverted to the facts of condensation and rarefaction, which he connected respectively with cold and heat.17 The Infinite Air, possessing and exercising an inherent generative and developing power, perpetually in motion, passing from dense to rare or from rare to dense, became in its utmost rarefaction, Fire and Æther; when passing through successive stages of increased condensation it became first cloud, next water, then earth, and, lastly, in its 8utmost density, stone.18 Surrounding, embracing, and pervading the Kosmos, it also embodied and carried with it a vital principle, which animals obtained from it by inspiration, and which they lost as soon as they ceased to breathe.19 Anaximenes included in his treatise (which was written in a clear Ionic dialect) many speculations on astronomy and meteorology, differing widely from those of Anaximander. He conceived the Earth as a broad, flat, round plate, resting on the air.20 Earth, Sun, and Moon were in his view condensed air, the Sun acquiring heat by the extreme and incessant velocity with which he moved. The Heaven was not an entire hollow sphere encompassing the Earth below as well as above, but a hemisphere covering the Earth above, and revolving laterally round it like a cap round the head.21

17Origen. Philosophumen. c. 7; Simplikius in Aristot. Physic. f. 32; Brandis, Handb. d. Gesch. d. Gr.-R. Phil. p. 144.

Cicero, Academic. ii. 37, 118. “Anaximenes infinitum aera, sed ea, quæ ex eo orirentur, definita.”

The comic poet Philemon introduced in one of his dramas, of which a short fragment is preserved (Frag. 2, Meineke, p. 840) the omnipresent and omniscient Air, to deliver the prologue:

             —— οὑτός εἰμ’ ἐγὼ
Ἀήρ, ὃν ἄν τις ὀνομάσειε καὶ Δία.
ἐγὼ δ’, ὃ θεοῦ’ στιν ἔργον, εἰμὶ πανταχοῦ —
πάντ’ ἐξ ἀνάγκης οἶδα, πανταχοῦ παρών.
18Plutarch, De Primo Frigido, p. 917; Plutarch, ap. Euseb. P. E. i. 8.

19Plutarch, Placit. Philosophor, i. 3, p. 878.

20Aristotel. De Cœlo, ii. 13; Plutarch, Placit. Philosoph. iii. 10, p. 895.

21Origen. Philosophum. p. 12, ed. Miller: ὡσπερεὶ περὶ τὴν ἡμετέραν κεφαλὴν στρέφεται τὸ πιλίον.

The general principle of cosmogony, involved in the hypothesis of these three Milesians — one primordial substance or Something endued with motive and transmutative force, so as to generate all the variety of products, each successive and transient, which our senses witness — was taken up with more or less modification by others, especially by Diogenes of Apollonia, of whom I shall speak presently. But there were three other men who struck out different veins of thought — Pythagoras, Xenophanes, and Herakleitus: the two former seemingly contemporary with Anaximenes (550-490 B.C.), the latter somewhat later.

Pythagoras — his life and career — Pythagorean brotherhood, great political influence which it acquired among the Greco-Italian cities — incurred great enmity and was violently put down.

Of Pythagoras I have spoken at some length in the thirty-seventh chapter of my History of Greece. Speculative originality was only one among many remarkable features in his character. He was an inquisitive traveller, a religious reformer or innovator, and the founder of a powerful and active brotherhood, partly ascetic, partly political, which stands without parallel in Grecian history. The immortality of the soul, with its transmigration (metempsychosis) after death into other bodies, either 9of men or of other animals — the universal kindred thus recognised between men and other animals, and the prohibition which he founded thereupon against the use of animals for food or sacrifice — are among his most remarkable doctrines: said to have been borrowed (together with various ceremonial observances) from the Egyptians.22 After acquiring much celebrity in his native island of Samos and throughout Ionia, Pythagoras emigrated (seemingly about 530 B.C.) to Kroton and Metapontum in Lower Italy, where the Pythagorean brotherhood gradually acquired great political ascendancy: and from whence it even extended itself in like manner over the neighbouring Greco-Italian cities. At length it excited so much political antipathy among the body of the citizens,23 that its rule was violently put down, and its members dispersed about 509 B.C. Pythagoras died at Metapontum.

22Herodot. ii. 81; Isokrates, Busirid. Encom. s. 28.

23Polybius, ii. 39; Porphyry, Vit. Pythag. 54, seq.

The Pythagoreans continue as a recluse sect, without political power.

Though thus stripped of power, however, the Pythagoreans still maintained themselves for several generations as a social, religious, and philosophical brotherhood. They continued and extended the vein of speculation first opened by the founder himself. So little of proclaimed individuality was there among them, that Aristotle, in criticising their doctrine, alludes to them usually under the collective name Pythagoreans. Epicharmus, in his comedies at Syracuse (470 B.C.) gave occasional utterance to various doctrines of the sect; but the earliest of them who is known to have composed a book, was Philolaus,24 the contemporary of Sokrates. Most of the opinions ascribed to the Pythagoreans originated probably among the successors of Pythagoras; but the basis and principle upon which they proceed seems undoubtedly his.

24Diogen. Laert. viii. 7-15-78-85.

Some passages of Aristotle, however, indicate divergences of doctrine among the Pythagoreans themselves (Metaphys. A. 5, p. 986, a. 22). He probably speaks of the Pythagoreans of his own time when dialectical discussion had modified the original orthodoxy of the order. Compare Gruppe, Ueber die Fragmente des Archytas, cap. 5, p. 61-63. About the gradual development of the Pythagorean doctrine, see Brandis, Handbuch der Gr.-R. Philos. s. 74, 75.

Doctrine of the Pythagoreans — Number the Essence of Things.

The problem of physical philosophy, as then conceived, was 10to find some primordial and fundamental nature, by and out of which the sensible universe was built up and produced; something which co-existed always underlying it, supplying fresh matter and force for generation of successive products. The hypotheses of Thales, Anaximander, and Anaximenes, to solve this problem, have been already noticed: Pythagoras solved it by saying, That the essence of things consisted in Number. By this he did not mean simply that all things were numerable, or that number belonged to them as a predicate. Numbers were not merely predicates inseparable from subjects, but subjects in themselves: substances or magnitudes, endowed with active force, and establishing the fundamental essences or types according to which things were constituted. About water,25 air, or fire, Pythagoras said nothing.26 He conceived that sensible phenomena had greater resemblance to numbers than to any one of these substrata assigned by the Ionic philosophers. Number was (in his doctrine) the self-existent reality — the fundamental material and in-dwelling force pervading the universe. Numbers were not separate from things27 (like the Platonic Ideas), but fundamenta of things — their essences or determining principles: they were moreover conceived as having magnitude and active force.28 In the movements of the celestial bodies, in works of human art, in musical harmony — measure and number are the producing and directing agencies. According to the Pythagorean Philolaus, “the Dekad, the full and perfect number, was of supreme and universal efficacy as the guide and principle of life, both to the 11Kosmos and to man. The nature of number was imperative and lawgiving, affording the only solution of all that was perplexing or unknown; without number all would be indeterminate and unknowable.”29

25Aristotel. Metaphys. A. 5, p. 985, b. 27. Ἐν δὲ τοῖς ἀριθμοῖς, ἐνδόκουν θεωρεῖν ὁμοιώματα πολλὰ τοῖς οὖσι καὶ γιγνομένοις, μᾶλλον ἢ ἐν πυρὶ καὶ γῇ καὶ ὕδατι, &c. Cf. N. 3, p. 1090, a. 21.

26Aristotel. Metaph. A. 9, p. 990, a. 16. Διὸ περὶ πυρὸς ἢ γῆς ἢ τῶν ἄλλων τῶν τοιούτων σωμάτων οὐδ’ ὁτιοῦν εἰρήκασιν, &c. (the Pythagoreans); also N. 3.

27Physic. iii. 4, p. 203, a. 6. Οὐ γὰρ χωριστὸν ποιοῦσι (the Pythagoreans) τὸν ἀριθμόν, &c. Metaphys. M. 6, p. 1080, b. 19: τὰς μονάδας ὑπολαμβάνουσιν ἔχειν μέγεθος. M. 8, p. 1083, b. 17: ἐκεῖνοι (the Pythagoreans) τὸν ἀριθμὸν τὰ ὄντα λέγουσιν· τὰ γοῦν θεωρήματα προσάπτουσι τοῖς σώμασιν ὡς ἐξ ἐκείνων ὄντων τῶν ἀριθμῶν.

28An analogous application of this principle (Number as the fundamental substance and universal primary agent) may be seen in an eminent physical philosopher of the nineteenth century, Oken’s Elements of Physio-Philosophy, translated by Tulk. Aphorism 57:—“While numbers in a mathematical sense are positions and negations of nothing, in the philosophical sense they are positions and negations of the Eternal. Every thing which is real, posited, finite, has become this, out of numbers; or more strictly speaking, every Real is absolutely nothing else than a number. This must be the sense entertained of numbers in the Pythagorean doctrine — namely, that every thing, or the whole universe, had arisen from numbers. This is not to be taken in a merely quantitative sense, as it has hitherto been erroneously; but in an intrinsic sense, as implying that all things are numbers themselves, or the acts of the Eternal. The essen…"
