"The Project Gutenberg eBook of Plato and the Other Companions of Sokrates, 3rd ed. Volume 4
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
Title: Plato and the Other Companions of Sokrates, 3rd ed. Volume 4

Author: George Grote


Release date: August 7, 2012 [eBook #40438]
Most recently updated: October 23, 2024

Language: English

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/40438

Credits: Produced by Ed Brandon as part of the on-line Grote Project

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PLATO AND THE OTHER COMPANIONS OF SOKRATES, 3RD ED. VOLUME 4 ***
PLATO, AND THE OTHER COMPANIONS OF SOKRATES.
 

 

 

 

PLATO,
and the
OTHER COMPANIONS OF SOKRATES.
 

by
GEORGE GROTE,
author of the ‘history of greece’.
 

A NEW EDITION.
 

IN FOUR VOLUMES.
 

Vol. IV.
 

LONDON:
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.
1888.
The right of Translation is reserved.

 

 

 

CONTENTS.
 
 
 
CHAPTER XXXV.
PLATONIC REPUBLIC — ABSTRACT.
Declared theme of the Republic — Expansion and multiplication of the topics connected with it	1
Personages of the dialogue	2
Views of Kephalus about old age	ib.
Definition of Justice by Simonides — It consists in rendering to every man what is owing to him	ib.
Objections to it by Sokrates — There are cases in which it is not right to restore what is owing, or to tell the truth	3
Explanation by Polemarchus — Farther interrogations by Sokrates — Justice renders what is proper and suitable: but how? in what cases, proper? Under what circumstances is Justice useful?	4
The just man, being good for keeping property guarded, must also be good for stealing property — Analogies cited	5
Justice consists in doing good to friends, evil to enemies — But how, if a man mistakes who his friends are, and makes friends of bad men?	6
Justice consists in doing good to your friend, if really a good man: hurt to your enemy, with the like proviso. Sokrates affirms that the just man will do no hurt to any one. Definition of Simonides rejected	ib.
Thrasymachus takes up the dialogue — Repulsive portrait drawn of him	7
Violence of Thrasymachus — Subdued manner of Sokrates — Conditions of useful colloquy	ib.
Definition given by Thrasymachus — Justice is that which is advantageous to the more powerful. Comments by Sokrates. What if the powerful man mistakes his own advantage?	8
Correction by Thrasymachus — if the Ruler mistakes, he is pro tanto no Ruler — The Ruler, quâ Ruler — quâ Craftsman — is infallible	9
Reply by Sokrates — The Ruler, quâ infallible Craftsman, studies the interest of those whom he governs, and not his own interest	ib.
Thrasymachus denies this — Justice is the good of another. The just many are worse off than the unjust One, and are forced to submit to his superior strength	10
Position laid for the subsequent debate and exposition	11
Arguments of Sokrates — Injustice is a source of weakness — Every multitude must observe justice among themselves, in order to avoid perpetual quarrels. The same about any single individual: if he is unjust, he will be at war with himself, and perpetually weak	ib.
Farther argument of Sokrates — The just man is happy, the unjust man miserable — Thrasymachus is confuted and silenced. Sokrates complains that he does not yet know what Justice is	ib.
Glaukon intimates that he is not satisfied with the proof, though he agrees in the opinion expressed by Sokrates. Tripartite distribution of Good — To which of the three heads does Justice belong?	12
Glaukon undertakes to set forth the case against Sokrates, though professing not to agree with it	ib.
Pleading of Glaukon. Justice is in the nature of a compromise for all — a medium between what is best and what is worst	13
Comparison of the happiness of the just man derived from his justice alone, when others are unjust to him with that of the unjust man under parallel circumstances	14
Pleading of Adeimantus on the same side. He cites advice given by fathers to their sons, recommending just behaviour by reason of its consequences	15
Nobody recommends Justice per se, but only by reason of its consequences	16
Adeimantus calls upon Sokrates to recommend and enforce Justice on its own grounds, and to explain how Justice in itself benefits the mind of the just man	17
Relation of Glaukon and Adeimantus to Thrasymachus	18
Statement of the question as it stands after the speeches of Glaukon and Adeimantus. What Sokrates undertakes to prove	ib.
Position to be proved by Sokrates — Justice makes the just man happy per se, whatever be its results	20
Argument of Sokrates to show what Justice is — Assumed analogy between the city and the individual	ib.
Fundamental principle, to which communities of mankind owe their origin — Reciprocity of want and service between individuals — No individual can suffice to himself	ib.
Moderate equipment of a sound and healthy city — Few wants	22
Enlargement of the city — Multiplied wants and services. First origin of war and strife with neighbours — It arises out of these multiplied wants	ib.
Separate class of soldiers or Guardians. One man cannot do well more than one business. Character required in the Guardians — Mildness at home with pugnacity against enemies	23
Peculiar education necessary, musical as well as gymnastical	23
Musical education, by fictions as well as by truth. Fictions addressed to the young: the religious legends now circulating are often pernicious: censorship necessary	24
Orthodox type to be laid down: all poets are required to conform their legends to it. The Gods are causes of nothing but good: therefore they are causes of few things. Great preponderance of actual evil	ib.
The Guardians must not fear death. No terrible descriptions of Hades must be presented to them: no intense sorrow, nor violent nor sensual passion, must be re counted either of Gods or Heroes	25
Type for all narratives respecting men	26
Style of narratives. The poet must not practise variety of imitation: he must not speak in the name of bad characters	ib.
Rhythm and Melody regulated. None but simple and grave music allowed: only the Dorian and Phrygian moods, with the lyre and harp	ib.
Effect of musical training of the mind — makes youth love the Beautiful and hate the Ugly	27
Training of the body — simple and sober. No refined medical art allowed. Wounds or temporary ailments treated; but sickly frames cannot be kept alive	28
Value of Gymnastic in imparting courage to the mind — Gymnastic and Music necessary to correct each other	29
Out of the Guardians a few of the very best must be chosen as Elders or Rulers — highly educated and severely tested	ib.
Fundamental creed required to be planted in the minds of all the citizens respecting their breed and relationship	30
How is such a fiction to be accredited in the first instance? Difficulty extreme, of first beginning; but if once accredited, it will easily transmit itself by tradition	31
Guardians to reside in barracks and mess together; to have no private property or home; to be maintained by contribution from the people	32
If the Guardians fail in these precautions, and acquire private interests, the city will be ruined	32
Complete unity of the city, every man performing his own special function	33
The maintenance of the city depends upon that of the habits, character, and education of the Guardians	34
Religious legislation — Consult the Delphian Apollo	ib.
The city is now constituted as a good city — that is, wise, courageous, temperate, just. Where is its Justice?	ib.
First, where is the wisdom of the city? It resides in the few elder Rulers	ib.
Where is the Courage? In the body of Guardians or Soldiers	35
Where is the Temperance? It resides in all and each, Rulers, Guardians, and People. Superiors rule and Inferiors obey	ib.
Where is the Justice? In all and each of them also. It consists in each performing his own special function, and not meddling with the function of the others	36
Injustice arises when any one part of the city interferes with the functions of the other part, or undertakes double functions	37
Analogy of the city to the individual — Each man is tripartite, having in his mind Reason, Energy, Appetite. These three elements are distinct, and often conflicting	ib.
Reason, Energy, Appetite, in the individual — analogous to Rulers, Guardians, Craftsmen in the city. Reason is to rule Appetite. Energy assists Reason in ruling it	39
A man is just when these different parts of his mind exercise their appropriate functions without hindrance	ib.
Justice and Injustice in the mind — what health and disease are in the body	40
Original question now resumed — Does Justice make a man happy, and Injustice make him miserable, apart from all consequences? Answer — Yes	ib.
Glaukon requires farther explanation about the condition of the Guardians, in regard to sexual and family ties	41
Men and women will live together and perform the duties of Guardians alike — They will receive the same gymnastic and musical training	41
Nature does not prescribe any distribution of functions between men and women. Women are inferior to men in every thing. The best women are equal to second-best men	42
Community of life and relations between the male and female Guardians. Temporary marriages arranged by contrivance of the Elders. No separate families	ib.
Regulations about age, for procreation — Children brought up under public authority	44
Perfect communion of sentiment and interest among the Guardians — Causes of pleasure and pain the same to all, like parts of the same organism	ib.
Harmony — absence of conflicting interest — assured scale of equal comfort — consequent happiness — among the Guardians	45
In case of war both sexes will go together to battle — Rewards to distinguished warriors	46
War against Hellenic enemies to be carried on mildly — Hellens are all by nature kinsmen	47
Question — How is the scheme practicable? It is difficult, yet practicable on one condition — That philosophy and political power should come into the same hands	ib.
Characteristic marks of the philosopher — He contemplates and knows Entia or unchangeable Forms, as distinguished from fluctuating particulars or Fientia	48
Ens alone can be known — Non-Ens is unknowable. That which is midway between Ens and Non-Ens (particulars) is matter only of opinion. Ordinary men attain nothing beyond opinion	49
Particulars fluctuate: they are sometimes just or beautiful, sometimes unjust or ugly. Forms or Entia alone remain constant	50
The many cannot discern or admit the reality of Forms — Their minds are always fluctuating among particulars	51
The philosopher will be ardent for all varieties of knowledge — His excellent moral attributes — He will be trained to capacity for active life	ib.
Adeimantus does not dispute the conclusion, but remarks that it is at variance with actual facts — Existing philosophers are either worthless pretenders, or when they are good, useless	52
Sokrates admits the fact to be so — His simile of the able steersman on shipboard, among a disobedient crew	53
The uselessness of the true philosopher is the fault of the citizen, who will not invoke his guidance	54
The great qualities required to form a philosopher, become sources of perversion, under a misguiding public opinion	ib.
Mistake of supposing that such perversion arises from the Sophists. Irresistible effect of the public opinion generally, in tempting or forcing a dissenter into orthodoxy	55
The Sophists and other private teachers accept the prevalent orthodoxy, and conform their teaching to it	56
The people generally hate philosophy — A youth who aspires to it will be hated by the people, and persecuted even by his own relatives	57
The really great minds are thus driven away from the path of philosophy — which is left to empty pretenders	58
Rare cases in which a highly qualified philosopher remains — Being at variance with public opinion, he can achieve nothing, and is lucky if he can obtain safety by silence	ib.
The philosopher must have a community suitable to him, and worthy of him	59
It must be such a community as Sokrates has been describing — But means must be taken to keep up a perpetual succession of philosophers as Rulers	60
Proper manner of teaching philosophy — Not to begin at a very early age	ib.
If the multitude could once see a real, perfect, philosopher, they could not fail to love him: but this never happens	61
Course of training in the Platonic city, for imparting philosophy to the Rulers. They must be taught to ascend to the Idea of Good. But what is Good?	ib.
Ancient disputes upon this point, though every one yearns after Good. Some say Intelligence; some say Pleasure. Neither is satisfactory	62
Adeimantus asks what Sokrates says. Sokrates says that he can not answer: but he compares it by a metaphor to the Sun	63
The Idea of Good rules the ideal or intelligible world, as the Sun rules the sensible or visible world	64
To the intelligible world there are applicable two distinct modes of procedure — the Geometrical — the Dialectic. Geometrical procedure assumes diagrams	65
Dialectic procedure assumes nothing. It departs from the highest Form, and steps gradually down to the lowest, without meddling with any thing except Forms	66
Two distinct grades of Cognition — Direct or Superior — Nous — Indirect or Inferior — Dianoia	ib.
Two distinct grades of Opinion also in the Sensible World — Faith or Belief — Conjecture	67
Distinction between the philosopher and the unphilosophical public, illustrated by the simile of the Cave, and the captives imprisoned therein	ib.
Daylight of philosophy contrasted with the firelight and shadows of the Cave	69
Purpose of a philosophical training, to turn a man round from facing the bad light of the Cave to face the daylight of philosophy, and to see the eternal Forms	ib.
Those who have emerged from the Cave into full daylight amidst eternal Forms, must be forced to come down again and undertake active duties — Their reluctance to do this	70
Studies serving as introduction to philosophy — Arithmetic, its awakening power — shock to the mind by felt contradiction	ib.
Perplexity arising from the One and Many, stimulates the mind to an intellectual effort for clearing it up	72
Geometry conducts the mind to wards Universal Ens	ib.
Astronomy — how useful — not useful as now taught — must be studied by ideal figures, not by observation	73
Acoustics, in like manner — The student will be thus conducted to the highest of all studies — Dialectic: and to the region of pure intelligible Forms	74
Question by Glaukon — What is the Dialectic Power? Sokrates declares that he cannot answer with certainty, and that Glaukon could not follow him if he did	75
He answers partially — It is the consummation of all the sciences, raising the student to the contemplation of pure Forms, and especially to that of the highest Form — Good	ib.
The Synoptic view peculiar to the Dialectician	76
Scale and duration of various studies for the Guardians, from youth upwards	ib.
All these studies, and this education, are common to females as well as males	77
First formation of the Platonic city — how brought about: difficult, but not impossible	78
The city thus formed will last long, but not for ever. After a certain time, it will begin to degenerate. Stages of its degeneracy	ib.
1. Timocracy and the timocratical individual. 2 Oligarchy, and the oligarchical individual	79
3. Democracy, and the democratical individual	80
4. Passage from democracy to despotism. Character of the despotic city	81
Despotic individual corresponding to that city	82
The city has thus passed by four stages, from best to worse. Question — How are Happiness and Misery apportioned among them?	ib.
Misery of the despotised city	83
Supreme Misery of the despotising individual	ib.
Conclusion — The Model city and the individual corresponding to it, are the happiest of all — That which is farthest removed from it, is the most miserable of all	84
The Just Man is happy in and through his Justice, however he may be treated by others. The Unjust Man, miserable	84
Other arguments proving the same conclusion — Pleasures of Intelligence are the best of all pleasures	ib.
They are the only pleasures completely true and pure. Comparison of pleasure and pain with neutrality. Prevalent illusions	86
Most men know nothing of true and pure pleasure. Simile of the Kosmos — Absolute height and depth	87
Nourishment of the mind partakes more of real essence than nourishment of the body — Replenishment of the mind imparts fuller pleasure than replenishment of the body	88
Comparative worthlessness of the pleasures of Appetite and Ambition, when measured against those of Intelligence	89
The Just Man will be happy from his justice — He will look only to the good order of his own mind — He will stand aloof from public affairs, in cities as now constituted	90
Tenth Book — Censure of the poets is renewed — Mischiefs of imitation generally, as deceptive — Imitation from imitation	91
Censure of Homer — He is falsely extolled as educator of the Hellenic world. He and other poets only deceive their hearers	92
The poet chiefly appeals to emotions — Mischiefs of such eloquent appeals, as disturbing the rational government of the mind	ib.
Ancient quarrel between philosophy and poetry — Plato fights for philosophy, though his feelings are strongly enlisted for poetry	93
Immortality of the soul affirmed and sustained by argument — Total number of souls always the same	ib.
Recapitulation — The Just Man will be happy, both from his justice and from its consequences, both here and hereafter	94
 
 
 
CHAPTER XXXVI.
REPUBLIC — REMARKS ON ITS MAIN THESIS.
Summary of the preceding chapter	95
Title of the Republic, of ancient date, but only a partial indication of its contents	96
Parallelism between the Commonwealth and the Individual	96
Each of them a whole, composed of parts distinct in function and unequal in merit	97
End proposed by Plato. Happiness of the Commonwealth. Happiness of the individual. Conditions of happiness	98
Peculiar view of Justice taken by Plato	99
Pleadings of Glaukon and Adeimantus	ib.
The arguments which they enforce were not invented by the Sophists, but were the received views anterior to Plato	100
Argument of Sokrates to refute them. Sentiments in which it originates. Panegyric on Justice	101
Different senses of justice — wider and narrower sense	102
Plato’s sense of the word Justice or Virtue — self-regarding	104
He represents the motives to it, as arising from the internal happiness of the just agents	105
His theory departs more widely from the truth than that which he opposes. Argument of Adeimantus discussed	106
A Reciprocity of rights and duties between men in social life — different feelings towards one and towards the other	109
Plato’s own theory, respecting the genesis of society, is based on reciprocity	111
Antithesis and correlation of obligation and right. Necessity of keeping the two ideas together, as the basis of any theory respecting society	112
Characteristic feature of the Platonic Commonwealth — specialization of services to that function for which each man is fit — will not apply to one individual separately	114
Plato has not made good his refutation — the thesis which he impugns is true	116
Statement of the real issue between him and his opponents	117
He himself misrepresents this issue — he describes his opponents as enemies of justice	ib.
Farther arguments of Plato in support of his thesis. Comparison of three different characters of men	118
His arguments do not go to the point which he professes to aim at	120
Exaggerated parallelism between the Commonwealth and the individual man	121
Second Argument of Plato to prove the happiness of the just man — He now recalls his previous concession, and assumes that the just man will receive just treatment and esteem from others	ib.
Dependence of the happiness of the individual on the society in which he is placed	123
Inconsistency of affirming general positions respecting the happiness of the just man, in all societies without distinction	124
Qualified sense in which only this can be done	125
Question — Whether the just man is orthodox or dissenter in his society? — important in discussing whether he is happy	126
Comparison of the position of Sokrates at Athens, with that of his accusers	ib.
Imperfect ethical basis on which Plato has conducted the discussion in the Republic	127
Plato in Republic is preacher, inculcating useful beliefs — not philosopher, establishing scientific theory. State of Just and Unjust Man in the Platonic Commonwealth	129
Comparative happiness of the two in actual communities. Plato is dissatisfied with it — This is his motive for recasting society on his own principles	130
Confusion between the preacher and the philosopher in the Platonic Republic	131
Remarks on the contrast between ethical theory and ethical precepts	ib.
 
 
 
CHAPTER XXXVII.
REPUBLIC — REMARKS ON THE PLATONIC COMMONWEALTH.
Double purpose of the Platonic Republic — ethical and political	133
Plato recognises the generating principle of human society — reciprocity of need and service. Particular direction which he gives to this principle	133
The four cardinal virtues are assumed as constituting the whole of Good or Virtue, where each of these virtues resides	134
First mention of these, as an exhaustive classification, in ethical theory. Plato effaces the distinction between Temperance and Justice	135
All the four are here assumed as certain and determinate, though in former dialogues they appear indeterminate and full of unsolved difficulties	137
Difficulties left unsolved, but overleaped by Plato	138
Ethical and political theory combined by Plato, treated apart by Aristotle	ib.
Platonic Commonwealth — only an outline — partially filled up	139
Absolute rule of a few philosophers — Careful and peculiar training of the Guardians	ib.
Comparison of Plato with Xenophon — Cyropædia — Œconomicus	141
Both of them combine polity with education — temporal with spiritual	142
Differences between them — Character of Cyrus	ib.
Xenophontic genius for command — Practical training — Sokratic principles applied in Persian training	144
Plato does not build upon an individual hero. Platonic training compared with Xenophontic	146
Platonic type of character compared with Xenophontic, is like the Athenian compared with the Spartan	147
Professional soldiers are the proper modern standard of comparison with the regulations of Plato and Xenophon	148
Music and Gymnastic — multifarious and varied effects of music	149
Great influence of the poets and their works on education	ib.
Plato’s idea of the purpose which poetry and music ought to serve in education	151
He declares war against most of the traditional and consecrated poetry, as mischievous	ib.
Strict limits imposed by Plato on poets	153
His view of the purposes of fiction — little distinction between fiction and truth. His censures upon Homer and the tragedians	154
Type of character prescribed by Plato, to which all poets must conform, in tales about Gods and Heroes	155
Position of Plato as an innovator on the received faith and traditions. Fictions indispensable to the Platonic Commonwealth	156
Difficulty of procuring first admission for fictions. Ease with which they perpetuate themselves after having been once admitted	158
Views entertained by Kritias and others, that the religious doctrines generally believed had originated with law-givers, for useful purposes	159
Main points of dissent between Plato and his countrymen, in respect to religious doctrine	161
Theology of Plato compared with that of Epikurus — Neither of them satisfied the exigencies of a believing religious mind of that day	ib.
Plato conceives the Gods according to the exigencies of his own mind — complete discord with those of the popular mind	163
Repugnance of ordinary Athenians in regard to the criticism of Sokrates on the religious legends	165
Aristophanes connects the idea of immorality with the freethinkers and their wicked misinterpretations	ib.
Heresies ascribed to Sokrates by his own friends — Unpopularity of his name from this circumstance	168
Restrictions imposed by Plato upon musical modes and reciters	ib.
All these restrictions intended for the emotional training of the Guardians	169
Regulations for the life of the Guardians, especially the prohibition of separate property and family	ib.
Purpose of Plato in these regulations	ib.
Common life, education, drill, collective life, and duties, for Guardians of both sexes. Views of Plato respecting the female character and aptitudes	171
His arguments against the ordinary doctrine	172
Opponents appealed to nature as an authority against Plato. He invokes Nature on his own side against them	173
Collective family relations and denominations among the Guardians	174
Restrictions upon sexual intercourse — Purposes of such restrictions	175
Regulations about marriages and family	176
Procreative powers of individual Guardians required to be held at the disposal of the rulers, for purity of breed	177
Purpose to create an intimate and equal sympathy among all the Guardians, but to prevent exclusive sympathy of particular members	178
Platonic scheme — partial communism	179
Soldiership as a separate profession has acquired greater development in modern times	180
Spartan institutions — great impression which they produced upon speculative Greek minds	181
Plans of these speculative minds compared with Spartan — Different types of character contemplated	182
Plato carries abstraction farther than Xenophon or Aristotle	183
Anxiety shown by Plato for the good treatment of the Demos, greater than that shown by Xenophon and Aristotle	ib.
In Aristotle’s theory, the Demos are not considered as members of the Commonwealth, but as adjuncts	184
Objection urged by Aristotle against the Platonic Republic, that it will be two cities. Spiritual pride of the Guardians, contempt for the Demos	ib.
Plato’s scheme fails, mainly because he provides no training for the Demos	186
Principle of Aristotle — That every citizen belongs to the city, not to himself — applied by Plato to women	187
Aristotle declares the Platonic Commonwealth impossible — In what sense this is true	189
The real impossibility of the Platonic Commonwealth, arises from the fact that discordant sentiments are already established	191
Plato has strong feelings of right and wrong about sexual intercourse, but referring to different objects	192
Different sentiment which would grow up in the Platonic Commonwealth respecting the sexual relations	193
What Nature prescribes in regard to the relations of the two sexes — Direct contradiction between Plato and Aristotle	194
Opinion of Plato respecting the capacities of women, and the training proper for women, are maintained in the Leges, as well as in the Republic. Ancient legends harmonising with this opinion	195
In a Commonwealth like the Platonic, the influence of Aphroditê would probably have been reduced to a minimum	197
Other purposes of Plato — limitation of number of Guardians — common to Aristotle also	198
Law of population expounded by Malthus — Three distinct checks to population — alternative open between preventive and positive	ib.
Plato and Aristotle saw the same law as Malthus, but arranged the facts under a different point of view	202
Regulations of Plato and Aristotle as to number of births and newborn children	ib.
Such regulations disapproved and forbidden by modern sentiment. Variability of ethical sentiment as to objects approved or disapproved	203
Plato and Aristotle required subordination of impulse to reason and duty — they applied this to the procreative impulse, as to others	204
Training of the few select philosophers to act as chiefs	205
Comprehensive curriculum for aspirants to philosophy — consummation by means of Dialectic	206
Valuable remarks on the effects of these preparatory studies	207
Differences between the Republic and other dialogues — no mention of reminiscence nor of the Elenchus	ib.
Different view taken by Plato in the Republic about Dialectic — and different place assigned to it	208
Contradiction with the spirit of other dialogues — Parmenidês, &c.	209
Contradiction with the character and declarations of Sokrates	210
The remarks here made upon the effect of Dialectic upon youth coincide with the accusation of Melêtus against Sokrates	211
Contrast between the real Sokrates, as a dissenter at Athens, and the Platonic Sokrates, framer and dictator of the Platonic Republic	ib.
Idea of Good — The Chiefs alone know what it is — If they did not they would be unfit for their functions	212
What is the Good? Plato does not know; but he requires the Chiefs to know it. Without this the Republic would be a failure	213
 
 
 
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
TIMÆUS AND KRITIAS.
Persons and scheme of the Timæus and Kritias	215
The Timæus is the earliest ancient physical theory, which we possess in the words of its author	216
Position and character of the Pythagorean Timæus	ib.
Poetical imagination displayed by Plato. He pretends to nothing more than probability. Contrast with Sokrates, Isokrates, Xenophon	217
Fundamental distinction between Ens and Fientia	219
Postulates of Plato. The Demiurgus — The Eternal Ideas — Chaotic Materia or Fundamentum. The Kosmos is a living being and a God	220
The Demiurgus not a Creator — The Kosmos arises from his operating upon the random movements of Necessity. He cannot controul necessity — he only persuades	ib.
Meaning of Necessity in Plato	221
Process of demiurgic construction — The total Kosmos comes logically first, constructed on the model of the Αὐτοζῶον	223
Body of the Kosmos, perfectly spherical — its rotations	225
Soul of the Kosmos — its component ingredients — stretched from centre to circumference	ib.
Regular or measured Time — began with the Kosmos	227
Divine tenants of the Kosmos. Primary and Visible Gods — Stars and Heavenly Bodies	229
Secondary and generated Gods — Plato’s dictum respecting them. His acquiescence in tradition	230
Remarks on Plato’s Canon of Belief	231
Address and order of the Demiurgus to the generated Gods	233
Preparations for the construction of man. Conjunction of three souls and one body	ib.
Proceedings of the generated Gods — they fabricate the cranium, as miniature of the Kosmos, with the rational soul rotating within it	235
The cranium is mounted on a tall body — six varieties of motion — organs of sense. Vision — Light	236
Principal advantages of sight and hearing. Observations of the rotation of the Kosmos	237
The Kosmos is product of joint action of Reason and Necessity. The four visible and tangible elements are not primitive	238
Forms or Ideas and Materia Prima — Forms of the Elements — Place, or Receptivity	ib.
Primordial Chaos — Effect of intervention by the Demiurgus	240
Geometrical theory of the elements — fundamental triangles — regular solids	ib.
Varieties of each element	242
Construction of man imposed by the Demiurgus upon the secondary Gods. Triple Soul. Distribution thereof in the body	243
Functions of the heart and lungs. Thoracic soul	245
Abdominal Soul — difficulty of controuling it — functions of the liver	ib.
The liver is made the seat of the prophetic agency. Function of the spleen	246
Length of the intestinal canal, in order that food might not be frequently needed	247
Bone — Flesh — Marrow	ib.
Nails — Mouth — Teeth. Plants produced for nutrition of man	248
General view of Diseases and their Causes	249
Diseases of mind — wickedness is a disease — no man is voluntarily wicked	ib.
Badness of mind arises from body	250
Preservative and healing agencies against disease — well-regulated exercise, of mind and body proportionally	250
Treatment proper for mind alone, apart from body — supremacy of the rational soul must be cultivated	251
We must study and understand the rotations of the Kosmos — this is the way to amend the rotations of the rational soul	252
Construction of women, birds, quadrupeds, fishes, &c., all from the degradation of primitive man	ib.
Large range of topics introduced in the Timæus	254
The Demiurgus of the Platonic Timæus — how conceived by other philosophers of the same century	ib.
Adopted and welcomed by the Alexandrine Jews, as a parallel to the Mosaic Genesis	256
Physiology of the Platonic Timæus — subordinate to Plato’s views of ethical teleology. Triple soul — each soul at once material and mental	257
Triplicity of the soul — espoused afterwards by Galen	258
Admiration of Galen for Plato — his agreement with Plato, and his dissension from Plato — his improved physiology	259
Physiology and Pathology of Plato — compared with that of Aristotle and the Hippokratic treatises	260
Contrast between the admiration of Plato for the constructors of the Kosmos, and the defective results which he describes	262
Degeneration of the real tenants of Earth from their primitive type	263
Close of the Timæus. Plato turns away from the shameful results, and reverts to the glorification of the primitive types	264
Kritias: a fragment	265
Proœmium to Timæus. Intended Tetralogy for the Republic. The Kritias was third piece in that Tetralogy	ib.
Subject of the Kritias. Solon and the Egyptian priests. Citizens of Platonic Republic are identified with ancient Athenians	266
Plato professes that what he is about to recount is matter of history, recorded by Egyptian priests	268
Description of the vast island of Atlantis and its powerful kings	ib.
Corruption and wickedness of the Atlantid people	269
Conjectures as to what the Platonic Kritias would have been — an ethical epic in prose	ib.
Plato represents the epic Kritias as matter of recorded history	270
 
 
 
CHAPTER XXXIX.
LEGES AND EPINOMIS.
Leges, the longest of Plato’s works — Persons of the dialogue	272
Abandonment of Plato’s philosophical projects prior to the Leges	273
Untoward circumstances of Plato’s later life — His altered tone in regard to philosophy	ib.
General comparison of Leges with Plato’s earlier works	275
Scene of the Leges, not in Athens, but in Krete. Persons Kretan and Spartan, comparatively illiterate	277
Gymnastic training, military drill, and public mess, in Krete and Sparta	279
Difference between Leges and Republic, illustrated by reference to the Politikus	280
Large proportion of preliminary discussions and didactic exhortation in the Leges	281
Scope of the discussion laid down by the Athenian speaker — The Spartan institutions are framed only for war — This is narrow and erroneous	282
Principles on which the institutions of a state ought to be defended — You must show that its ethical purpose and working is good	284
Religious and ethical character postulated by Plato for a community	ib.
Endurance of pain enforced as a part of the public discipline at Sparta	285
Why are not the citizens tested in like manner, in regard to resistance against the seductions of pleasure?	ib.
Drunkenness forbidden at Sparta, and blamed by the Spartan converser. The Athenian proceeds to inquire how far such unqualified prohibition is justifiable	286
Description of Sokrates in the Symposion — his self-command under abundant potations	287
Sokrates — an ideal of self-command, both as to pain and as to pleasure	288
Trials for testing the self-controul of the citizen, under the influence of wine. Dionysiac banquets, under a sober president	289
The gifts of Dionysus may, by precautions, be rendered useful — Desultory manner of Plato	ib.
Theory of ethical and æsthetical education — Training of the emotions of youth through the influence of the Muses, Apollo, and Dionysus. Choric practice and ceremonies	290
Music and dancing — imitation of the voice and movements of brave and virtuous men. Youth must be taught to take delight in this	291
Bad musical exhibitions and poetry forbidden by the lawgiver. Songs and dances must be consecrated by public authority. Prizes at the musical festivals to be awarded by select judges	292
The Spartan and Kretan agree with the Athenian, that poets must be kept under a strict censorship. But they do not agree as to what the poets are required to conform to	ib.
Ethical creed laid down by the Athenian — Poets required to conform to it	294
The Spartan and Kretan do not agree with him	296
Chorus of Elders are required to set an example in keeping up the purity of the music prescribed	297
The Elders require the stimulus of wine, in order to go through the choric duties with spirit	ib.
Peculiar views of Plato about intoxication	298
General ethical doctrine held by Plato in Leges	299
Pleasure — Good — Happiness — What is the relation between them?	ib.
Comparison of the doctrine laid down in Leges	300
Doctrine in Leges about Pleasure and Good — approximates more nearly to the Protagoras than to Gorgias and Philêbus	301
Comparison of Leges with Republic and Gorgias	302
Plato here mistrusts the goodness of his own proof. He falls back upon useful fiction	303
Deliberate ethical fiction employed as means of governing	304
Importance of music and chorus as an engine of teaching for Plato. Views of Xenophon and Aristotle compared	305
Historical retrospect as to the growth of cities — Frequent destruction of established communities, with only a small remnant left	307
Historical or legendary retrospect — The Trojan war — The return of the Herakleids	308
Difficulties of government — Conflicts about command — Seven distinct titles to command exist among mankind, all equally natural, and liable to conflict	309
Imprudence of founding government upon any one of these titles separately — Governments of Argos and Messênê ruined by the single principle — Sparta avoided it	310
Plato casts Hellenic legend into accordance with his own political theories	311
Persia and Athens compared — Excess of despotism. Excess of liberty	312
Cyrus and Darius — Bad training of sons of kings	ib.
Changes for the worse in government of Athens, after the Persian invasion of Greece	313
This change began in music, and the poets introduced new modes of composition — they appealed to the sentiment of the people, and corrupted them	314
Danger of changes in the national music — declared by Damon, the musical teacher	315
Plato’s aversion to the tragic and comic poetry at Athens	316
This aversion peculiar to himself, not shared either by oligarchical politicians, or by other philosophers	317
Doctrines of Plato in this prefatory matter	318
Compared with those of the Republic and of the Xenophontic Cyropædia	319
Constructive scheme — Plato’s new point of view	320
New Colony to be founded in Krete — its general conditions	ib.
The Athenian declares that he will not merely promulgate peremptory laws, but will recommend them to the citizens by prologues or hortatory discourses	321
General character of these prologues — didactic or rhetorical homilies	322
Great value set by Plato himself upon these prologues. They are to serve as type for all poets. No one is allowed to contradict them	323
Contrast of Leges with Gorgias and Phædrus	324
Regulations for the new colony — About religious worship, the oracles of Delphi and Dodona are to be consulted	325
Perpetuity of number of citizens, and of lots of land, one to each, inalienable and indivisible	326
Plato reasserts his adherence to the principle of the Republic, though the repugnance of others hinders him from realising it	327
Regulations about land, successions, marriages, &c. The number of citizens must not be allowed to increase	328
Position of the city and akropolis — Distribution of the territory and citizens into twelve equal sections or tribes	329
Movable property — Inequality therein reluctantly allowed, as far as four to one, but no farther	330
Census of the citizens — four classes, with graduated scale of property. No citizen to possess gold or silver. No loans or interest. No debts enforced by law	331
Board of thirty-seven Nomophylakes — general supervisors of the laws and their execution — how elected	332
Military commanders — General council of 360 — complicated mode of election	ib.
Character of the electoral scheme — Plato’s views about wealth — he caters partly for the oligarchical sentiment, partly for the democratical	333
Meetings of council — other magistrates — Agoranomi — Astynomi, &c.	335
Defence of the territory — rural police — Agronomi, &c.	ib.
Comparison with the Lacedæmonian Kryptia	336
Priests — Exêgêtæ — Property belonging to temples	337
Superintendence of Music and Gymnastic. Educational function	ib.
Grave duties of the Minister of Education — precautions in electing him	338
Judicial duties	339
Private Causes — how tried	ib.
Public Causes must be tried directly by the citizens — strong feeling among Greeks about this	340
Plato’s way of meeting this feeling — intermediate inquiry and report by a special Commissioner	340
What laws the magistrates are to enforce — Many details must be left to the Nomophylakes	341
Marriage-Laws — Rich husbands to choose poor wives — No dowries — costly marriage festivals are forbidden	342
Laws about slavery. Slaves to be well fed, and never treated with cruelty or insolence. The master must not converse with them	ib.
Circular form for the city — Temples in the centre — No walls round it	344
Mode of life prescribed to new-married couples They are to take the best care about good procreation for the city	ib.
Board of superintending matrons	345
Age fixed for marriage. During the first ten years the couple are under obligation to procreate for the city — Restrictions during these ten years	ib.
How infants are to be brought up — Nurses — Perpetual regulated movements useful for toning down violent emotions	346
Choric and orchestic movements, their effect in discharging strong emotions	347
Training of boys and girls	348
Musical and literary teaching for youth — Poetry, songs, music, dances, must all be fixed by authority, and never changed — Mischief done by poets aiming to please	349
Boys and girls to learn letters and the lyre, from ten to thirteen years of age. Masters will teach the laws and homilies of the lawgiver, and licensed extracts from the poets	350
The teaching is to be simple, and common to both sexes	351
Rudiments of arithmetic and geometry to be taught	352
Astronomy must be taught, in order that the citizens may not assert libellous falsehoods respecting the heavenly bodies	354
Hunting — how far permitted or advised	355
Large general sense which Plato gives to the word hunting	356
Number of religious sacrifices to be determined by lawgiver	357
Military muster of the whole citizen population once in each month — men, women, and children	358
Gymnastic training must have reference to war, not to athletic prizes	358
Regulation of sexual intercourse. Syssitia or public mess	359
Regulations about landed property — Boundaries — Limited power of fining by magistrates	360
Regulations about artisans — Distribution of the annual landed produce	361
Admission of resident Metics — conditions attached	362
Offences and penal judicature — Procedure of the Dikasts	ib.
Sacrilege, the gravest of all crimes. High Treason	363
Theft punished by pœna dupli. General exhortation founded by Plato upon this enactment	364
All unjust men are unjust involuntarily. — No such thing as voluntary injustice. Injustice depends upon the temper of the agent — Distinction between damage and injury	365
Damage may be voluntary or involuntary — Injustice is shown often by conferring corrupt profit upon another — Purpose of punishment, to heal the distemper of the criminal	ib.
Three distinct causes of misguided proceedings. 1. Painful stimulus. 2. Pleasurable stimulus. 3. Ignorance	366
The unjust man is under the influence either of the first or second of these causes, without controul of Reason. If he acts under controul of Reason, though the Reason be bad, he is not unjust	367
Reasoning of Plato to save his doctrine — That no man commits injustice voluntarily	ib.
Peculiar definition of injustice. A man may do great voluntary hurt to others, and yet not be unjust, provided he does it under the influence of Reason, and not of Appetite	368
Plato’s purpose in the Laws is to prevent or remedy not only injustice but misconduct	369
Varieties of homicide — modes of dealing with them penally	370
Homicide involuntary — Homicide under provocation	ib.
Homicide voluntary	371
Homicide between kinsmen	372
Homicide justifiable — in what cases	ib.
Infliction of wounds	ib.
Infliction of blows	373
Plato has borrowed much from Attic procedure, especially in regard to Homicide — Peculiar view of Homicide at Athens, as to procedure	374
Impiety or outrage offered to divine things or places	375
All impiety arises from one or other of three heresies. 1. No belief in the Gods. 2. Belief that the Gods interfere very little. 3. Belief that they may be appeased by prayer and sacrifice	376
Punishment for these three heretical beliefs, with or without overt act	ib.
Heretic, whose conduct has been virtuous and faultless, to be imprisoned for five years, perhaps more	ib.
Heretic with bad conduct — punishment to be inflicted	377
No private worship or religious rites allowed. Every citizen must worship at the public temples	ib.
Uncertain and mischievous action of the religious sentiment upon individuals, if not controuled by public authority	378
Intolerant spirit of Plato’s legislation respecting uniformity of belief	379
The persons denounced by Plato as heretics, and punished as such, would have included a majority of the Grecian world	381
Proëm or prefatory discourse of Plato, for these severe laws against heretics	383
The third variety of heresy is declared to be the worst — the belief in Gods persuadable by prayer and sacrifice	384
Heretics censured by Plato — Sokrates censured before the Athenian Dikasts	385
Kosmological and Kosmogonical theory announced in Leges	386
Soul — older, more powerful in the universe than Body. Different souls are at work in the universe — the good soul and the bad soul	ib.
Plato’s argument is unsatisfactory and inconsistent	388
Reverence of Plato for uniform circular rotation	389
Argument of Plato to confute the second class of heretics	ib.
Contrary doctrine of Plato in Republic	390
Argument of Plato to refute the third class of heretics	391
General belief in Greece about the efficacy of prayer and sacrifice to appease the Gods	392
Incongruities of Plato’s own doctrine	393
Both Herodotus and Sokrates dissented from Plato’s doctrine	394
Great opposition which Plato’s doctrine would have encountered in Greece	395
Local infallibility was claimed as a rule in each community, though rarely enforced with severity: Plato both claims it more emphatically, and enforces it more rigorously	396
Farther civil and political regulations for the Magnetic community. No evidence that Plato had studied the working of different institutions in practice	397
Modes of acquiring property — legitimate and illegitimate	ib.
Plato’s general regulations leave little room for disputes about ownership	398
Plato’s principles of legislation, not consistent — comparison of them with the Attic law about Eranoi	399
Regulations about slaves, and about freedmen	400
Provisions in case a slave is sold, having a distemper upon him	401
Retailers. Strict regulations about them. No citizen can be a retailer	ib.
Frauds committed by sellers — severe punishments on them	402
Comparison with the lighter punishment inflicted by Attic law	403
Regulations about Orphans and Guardians: also about Testamentary powers	404
Plato’s general coincidence with Attic law and its sentiment	406
Tutelage of Orphans — Disagreement of Married Couples — Divorce	ib.
Neglect of Parents	407
Poison — Magic — Incantations — Severe punishment	ib.
Punishment is inflicted with a view to future prevention or amendment	408
Penalty for abusive words — for libellous comedy. Mendicity forbidden	409
Regulations about witnesses on judicial trials	ib.
Censure of forensic eloquence, and the teachers of it. Penalties against contentious litigation	410
Many of Plato’s laws are discharges of ethical antipathy. The antipathy of Melêtus against Sokrates was of the same character	411
Penalty for abuse of public trust — wrongful appropriation of public money — evasion of military service	412
Oaths. Dikasts, Judges, Electors, are to be sworn: but no parties to a suit, or interested witnesses, can be sworn	413
Regulations about admission of strangers, and foreign travel of citizens	414
Suretyship — Length of prescription for ownership, &c.	415
Judicial trial — three stages. 1. Arbitrators. 2. Tribe-Dikasteries. 3. Select Dikastery	ib.
Funerals — proceedings prescribed — expense limited	ib.
Conservative organ to keep up the original scheme of the lawgiver. Nocturnal Council for this purpose — how constituted	ib.
This Council must keep steadily in view the one great end of the city — Mistakes made by existing cities about the right end	417
The one end of the city is the virtue of its citizens — that property which is common to the four varieties of Virtue — Reason, Courage, Temperance, Justice	ib.
The Nocturnal Council must comprehend this unity of Virtue, explain it to others, and watch that it be carried out in detail	418
They must also adopt, explain, and enforce upon the citizens, an orthodox religious creed. Fundamental dogmas of such creed	419
Leges close, without describing the education proper for the Nocturnal Counsellors. Epinomis supplying this defect	420
The Athenian declares his plan of education — Arithmetic, Geometry, Astronomy	ib.
Theological view of Astronomy — Divine Kosmos — Soul more ancient and more sovereign than Body	421
Improving effects of the study of Astronomy in this spirit	422
Study of arithmetic and geometry: varieties of proportion	423
When the general forms of things have thus been learnt, particular individuals in nature must be brought under them	ib.
Question as to education of the Nocturnal Council is answered in the Epinomis	424
Problem which the Nocturnal Council are required to solve, What is the common property of Prudence, Courage, Temperance, Justice, by reason of which each is called Virtue?	425
The only common property is that all of them are essential to the maintenance of society, and tend to promote human security and happiness	ib.
Tendency of the four opposite qualities to lessen human happiness	426
A certain measure of all the four virtues is required. In judging of particular acts instigated by each, there is always a tacit reference to the hurt or benefit in the special case	ib.
Plato places these four virtues in the highest scale of Expetenda or Bona, on the ground that all the other Bona are sure to flow from them	428
In thus directing the attention of the Council to the common property of the four virtues, Plato enforces upon them the necessity of looking to the security and happiness of their community as the paramount end	429
But he enjoins also other objectionable ends	ib.
Intolerance of Plato — Comparison of the Platonic community with Athens	ib.
 

 

 

 

CHAPTER XXXV.
PLATONIC REPUBLIC — ABSTRACT.
The Republic is the longest of all the Platonic dialogues, except the dialogue De Legibus. It consists of ten books, each of them as long as any one of the dialogues which we have passed in review. Partly from its length — partly from its lofty pretensions as the great constructive work of Plato — I shall give little more than an abstract of it in the present chapter, and shall reserve remark and comment for the succeeding.

Declared theme of the Republic — Expansion and multiplication of the topics connected with it.

The professed subject is — What is Justice? Is the just man happy in or by reason of his justice? whatever consequences may befall him? Is the unjust man unhappy by reason of his injustice? But the ground actually travelled over by Sokrates, from whose mouth the exposition proceeds, is far more extensive than could have been anticipated from this announced problem. An immense variety of topics, belonging to man and society, is adverted to more or less fully. A theory of psychology or phrenology generally, is laid down and advocated: likewise a theory of the Intellect, distributed into its two branches: 1. Science, with the Platonic Forms or Ideas as Realities corresponding to it; 2. Opinion, with the fluctuating semi-realities or pseudo-realities, which form its object. A sovereign rule, exercised by philosophy, is asserted as indispensable to human happiness. The fundamental conditions of a good society, as Plato conceived it, are set forth at considerable length, and contrasted with the social 2corruptions of various existing forms of government. The outline of a perfect education, intellectual and emotional, is drawn up and prescribed for the ruling class: with many accompanying remarks on the objectionable tendencies of the popular and consecrated poems. The post-existence, as well as the pre-existence of the soul, is affirmed in the concluding books. As the result of the whole, Plato emphatically proclaims his conviction, that the just man is happy in and through his justice, quite apart from all consideration of consequences — yet that the consequences also will be such as to add to his happiness, both during life as well as after death: and the unjust man unhappy in and through his injustice.1

1Plat. Repub. i. pp. 328 A, 350 D, 354 A.

Personages of the dialogue.

The dramatic introduction of the dialogue (which is described as held during the summer, immediately after the festival of the Bendideia in Peiræus), with the picture of the aged Kephalus and his views upon old age, is among the richest and most spirited in the Platonic works: but the discussion does not properly begin until Kephalus retires, leaving it to be carried on by Sokrates with Polemarchus, Glaukon, Adeimantus, and Thrasymachus.

Views of Kephalus about old age.

“Old age has its advantages to reasonable men (says Kephalus). If I have lost the pleasures of youth, I have at the same time lost the violent desires which then overmastered me. I now enjoy tranquillity and peace. Without doubt, this is in part owing to my wealth. But the best that wealth does for me is, that it enables me to make compensation for deceptions and injustice, practised on other men in my younger days — and to fulfil all vows made to the Gods. An old man who is too poor to render such atonement for past falsehood and injustice, becomes uneasy in his mind as death approaches; he begins to fear that the stories about Hades, which he has heard and ridiculed in his youth, may perhaps prove true.”2

2Plato, Repub. i. pp. 330-331.

Compare the language of Cato, more rhetorical and exaggerated than that of Kephalus, in Cic. De Senect. c. 13-14.

Definition of Justice by Simonides — It consists in rendering to every man what is owing to him.

“Is that your explanation of justice (asks Sokrates): that it consists in telling truth, and rendering to every one what you have had from him?” The old man 3Kephalus here withdraws; Polemarchus and the others prosecute the discussion. “The poet Simonides (says Polemarchus) gives an explanation like to that which you have stated — when he affirms, That just dealing consists in rendering to every man what is owing to him.”

Objections to it by Sokrates — There are cases in which it is not right to restore what is owing, or to tell the truth.

“I do not know what Simonides means,” replies Sokrates. “He cannot mean that it is always right to tell the truth, or always right to give back a deposit. If my friend, having deposited arms with me, afterwards goes mad, and in that state demands them back, it would not be right in me either to restore the arms, or to tell the truth, to a man in that condition. Therefore to say that justice consists in speaking truth and in giving back what we have received, cannot be a good definition.”3

3Plato, Repub. i. p. 331 C-D.

The historical Sokrates argues in the same manner (in the Memorabilia of Xenophon. See his conversation with Euthydemus, iv. 2; and Cicero, De Offic. iii. 25, 94-95).

Polemarchus here gives a peculiar meaning to the phrase of Simonides: a man owes good to his friends — evil to his enemies: and he ought to pay back both. Upon this Sokrates comments.4

4Sokrates here remarks that the precepts — Speak truth; Restore what has been confided to you — ought not to be considered as universally binding. Sometimes justice, or those higher grounds upon which the rules of justice are founded, prescribe that we should disobey the precepts. Sokrates takes this for granted, as a matter which no one will dispute; and it is evident that what Plato had here in his mind was, the obvious consideration that to tell the truth or restore a weapon deposited, to one who had gone mad, would do no good to any one, and might do immense mischief: thus showing that general utility is both the foundation and the limiting principle of all precepts respecting just and unjust. That this is present to the mind of Plato appears evident from his assuming the position as a matter of course; it is moreover Sokratic, as we see by the Memorabilia of Xenophon.

But Plato, in another passage of the Republic, clothes this Sokratic doctrine in a language and hypothesis of his own. He sets up Forms or Ideas, per se. The Just, — The Unjust, — The Honourable, — The Base, &c. He distinguishes each of these from the many separate manifestations in which it is specialised. The Form, though one reality in itself, appears manifold when embodied and disguised in these diversified accompaniments. It remains One and Unchanged, the object of Science and universal infallible truth; but each of its separate manifestations is peculiar to itself, appears differently to different minds, and admits of no higher certainty than fallible opinion. Though the Form of Justice always remains the same, yet its subordinate embodiments ever fluctuate; there is no given act nor assemblage of acts which is always just. Every just act (see Republic, v. pp. 476 A-479 A) is liable under certain circumstances to become unjust; or to be invaded and overclouded by the Form of Injustice. The genuine philosopher will detect the Form of Justice wherever it is to be found, in the midst of accompaniments however discrepant and confused, over all which he will ascend to the region of universal truth and reality. The unphilosophical mind cannot accomplish this ascent, nor detect the pure Form, nor even recognise its real existence: but sees nothing beyond the multiplicity of diverse particular cases in which it is or appears to be embodied. Respecting these particular cases there is no constant or universal truth, no full science. They cannot be thrown into classes to which the superior Form constantly and unconditionally adheres. They are midway between reality and non-reality: they are matters of opinion more or less reasonable, but not of certain science or unconditional affirmation. Among mankind generally, who see nothing of true and absolute Form, the received rules and dogmas respecting the Just, the Beautiful, &c., are of this intermediate and ambiguous kind: they can neither be affirmed universally, nor denied universally; they are partly true, partly false, determinable only by opinion in each separate case. Plato, Repub. v. p. 479 C-D: οὔτ’ εἶναι οὔτε μὴ εἶναι οὐδὲν αὐτῶν δυνατὸν παγίως νοῆσαι, οὔτε ἀμφότερα οὔτε οὐδέτερον … Τὰ τῶν πολλῶν πολλὰ νόμιμα, καλοῦ τε πέρι καὶ τῶν ἄλλων, μεταξύ που κυλινδεῖται τοῦ τε μὴ ὄντος καὶ τοῦ ὄντος εἰλικρινῶς.

Of the distinction here drawn in general terms by Plato, between the pure unchangeable Form, and the subordinate classes of particulars in which that Form is or appears to be embodied, the reasoning above cited respecting truth-telling and giving back a deposit is an example.

4Explanation by Polemarchus — Farther interrogations by Sokrates — Justice renders what is proper and suitable: but how? in what cases, proper? Under what circumstances is Justice useful?

S. — Simonides meant to say (you tell me) that Justice consists in rendering benefits to your friends, evil to your enemies: that is, in rendering to each what is proper and suitable. But we must ask him farther — Proper and suitable — how? in what cases? to whom? The medical art is that which renders what is proper and suitable, of nourishment and medicaments for the health of the body: the art of cookery is that which renders what is proper and suitable, of savoury ingredients for the satisfaction of the palate. In like manner, the cases must be specified in which justice renders what is proper and suitable — to whom, how, or what?5 P. — Justice consists in doing good to friends, evil to enemies. S. — Who is it that is most efficient in benefiting his friends and injuring his enemies, as to health or disease? P. — It is the physician. S. — Who, in reference to the dangers in navigation by sea? P. — The steersman. S. — In what matters is it that the just man shows his special efficiency, to benefit friends and hurt enemies?6 P. — In war: as a combatant for the one and against the other. S. — To men who are not sick, the physician is of no use nor the steersman, to men on 5dry land: Do you mean in like manner, that the just man is useless to those who are not at war? P. — No: I do not mean that. Justice is useful in peace also. S. — So also is husbandry, for raising food — shoemaking, for providing shoes. Tell me for what want or acquisition justice is useful during peace? P. — It is useful for the common dealings and joint transactions between man and man. S. — When we are engaged in playing at draughts, the good player is our useful co-operator: when in laying bricks and stones, the skilful mason: much more than the just man. Can you specify in what particular transactions the just man has any superior usefulness as a co-operator? P. — In affairs of money, I think. S. — Surely not in the employment of money. When you want to buy a horse, you must take for your assistant, not the just man, but one who knows horses: so also, if you are purchasing a ship. What are those modes of jointly employing money, in which the just man is more useful than others? P. — He is useful when you wish to have your money safely kept. S. — That is, when your money is not to be employed, but to lie idle: so that when your money is useless, then is the time when justice is useful for it. P. — So it seems. S. — In regard to other things also, a sickle, a shield, a lyre when you want to use them, the pruner, the hoplite, the musician, must be invoked as co-operators: justice is useful only when you are to keep them unused. In a word, justice is useless for the use of any thing, and useful merely for things not in use. Upon this showing, it is at least a matter of no great worth.7

5Plato, Republic, i. p. 332 D. ἡ οὖν δὴ τίσι τί ἀποδιδοῦσα τέχνη δικαιοσύνη ἂν καλοῖτο;

6Plato, Republic, i. p. 332 E. ὁ δίκαιος ἐν τίνι πράξει καὶ πρὸς τί ἔργον δυνατώτατος φίλους ὠφελεῖν καὶ ἐχθροὺς βλάπτειν;

7Plat. Repub. i. pp. 332-333. 333 E: Οὐκ ἂν οὖν πάνυ γέ τι σπουδαῖον εἴη ἡ δικαιοσύνη, εἰ πρὸς τὰ ἄχρηστα χρήσιμον ὂν τυγχάνει;

The just man, being good for keeping property guarded, must also be good for stealing property — Analogies cited.

But let us pursue the investigation (continues Sokrates). In boxing or in battle, is not he who is best in striking, best also in defending himself? In regard to disease, is not he who can best guard himself against it, the most formidable for imparting it to others? Is not the general who watches best over his own camp, also the most effective in surprising and over-reaching the enemy? In a word, whenever a man is effective as a guard of any thing, is he not also effective as a thief of it? P. — Such seems the course of the discussion. S. — Well then, the just man turns out to be a sort of thief, like the 6Homeric Autolykus. According to the explanation of Simonides, justice is a mode of thieving, for the profit of friends and damage of enemies.8 P. — It cannot be so. I am in utter confusion. Yet I think still that justice is profitable to friends, and hurtful to enemies.

8Plat. Repub. i. p. 334 B. ἔοικεν οὖν ἡ δικαιοσύνη … κλεπτική τις ρἶναι, ἐπ’ ὠφελείᾳ μέντοι τῶν φίλων, καὶ ἐπὶ βλάβῃ τῶν ἐχθρῶν.

Justice consists in doing good to friends, evil to enemies — But how, if a man mistakes who his friends are, and makes friends of bad men?

S. — Whom do you call friends: those whom a man believes to be good, — or those who really are good, whether he believes them to be so or not: and the like, in reference to enemies? P. — I mean those whom he believes to be good. It is natural that he should love them and that he should hate those whom he believes to be evil. S. — But is not a man often mistaken in this belief? P. — Yes: often. S. — In so far as a man is mistaken, the good men are his enemies, and the evil men his friends. Justice, therefore, on your showing, consists in doing good to the evil men, and evil to the good men. P. — So it appears. S. — Now good men are just, and do no wrong to any one. It is therefore just, on your explanation, to hurt those who do no wrong. P. — Impossible! that is a monstrous doctrine. S. — You mean, then, that it is just to hurt unjust men, and to benefit just men? P. — Yes; that is something better. S. — It will often happen, therefore, when a man misjudges about others, that justice will consist in hurting his friends, since they are in his estimation the evil men: and in benefiting his enemies, since they are in his estimation the good men. Now this is the direct contrary of what Simonides defined to be justice.9

9Plato, Republic, i. p. 334 D.

Justice consists in doing good to your friend, if really a good man: hurt to your enemy, with the like proviso. Sokrates affirms that the just man will do no hurt to any one. Definition of Simonides rejected.

“We have misconceived the meaning of Simonides (replies Polemarchus). He must have meant that justice consists in benefiting your friend, assuming him to be a good man: and in hurting your enemy, assuming him to be an evil man.” Sokrates proceeds to impugn the definition in this new sense. He shows that justice does not admit of our hurting any man, either evil or good. By hurting the evil man, we only make him more evil than he was before. To do this belongs not 7to justice, but to injustice.10 The definition of justice — That it consists in rendering benefit to friends and hurt to enemies — is not suitable to a wise man like Simonides, but to some rich potentate like Periander or Xerxes, who thinks his own power irresistible.11

10Plato, Republic, i. pp. 335-336.

11Here is a characteristic specimen of searching cross-examination in the Platonic or Sokratic style: citing multiplied analogies, and requiring the generalities of a definition to be clothed with particulars, that its sufficiency may be proved in each of many successive as well as different cases.

Thrasymachus takes up the dialogue — Repulsive portrait drawn of him.

At this turn of the dialogue, when the definition given by Simonides has just been refuted, Thrasymachus breaks in, and takes up the conversation with Sokrates. He is depicted as angry, self-confident to excess, and coarse in his manners even to the length of insult. The portrait given of him is memorable for its dramatic vivacity, and is calculated to present in an odious point of view the doctrines which he advances: like the personal deformities which Homer heaps upon Thersites in the Iliad.12 But how far it is a copy of the real man, we have no evidence to inform us.

12Homer, Iliad B 216. Respecting Thrasymachus the reader should compare Spengel — Συναγωγὴ Τεχνῶν — pp. 94-98: which abates the odium inspired by this picture in the Republic.

Violence of Thrasymachus — Subdued manner of Sokrates — Conditions of useful colloquy.

In the contrast between Sokrates and Thrasymachus, Plato gives valuable hints as to the conditions of instructive colloquy. “What nonsense is all this!” (exclaims Thrasymachus). “Do not content yourself with asking questions, Sokrates, which you know is much easier than answering: but tell us yourself what Justice is: give us a plain answer: do not tell us that it is what is right — or profitable — or for our interest — or gainful — or advantageous: for I will not listen to any trash like this.” “Be not so harsh with us, Thrasymachus” (replies Sokrates, in a subdued tone). “If we have taken the wrong course of inquiry, it is against our own will. You ought to feel pity for us rather than anger.” “I thought” (rejoined Thrasymachus, with a scornful laugh) “that you would have recourse to your usual pretence of ignorance, and would decline answering.” S. — How can I possibly answer, when you prescribe beforehand what I am to say or not to say? If you ask men — How much is twelve? and at the same time say — 8Don’t tell me that it is twice six, or three times four, or four times three — how can any man answer your question? T. — As if the two cases were similar! S. — Why not similar? But even though they be not similar, yet if the respondent thinks them so, how can he help answering according as the matter appears to him, whether we forbid him or not? T. — Is that what you intend to do? Are you going to give me one of those answers which I forbade? S. — Very likely I may, if on consideration it appears to me the proper answer.13 T. — What will you say if I show you another answer better than all of them? What penalty will you then impose upon yourself? S. — What penalty? — why, that which properly falls upon the ignorant. It is their proper fate to learn from men wiser than themselves: that is the penalty which I am prepared for.14

13Plato, Repub. i. p. 337 C. Εἰ δ’ οὖν καὶ μὴ ἔστιν ὅμοιον, φαίνεται δὲ τῷ ἐρωτηθέντι τοιοῦτον, ἧττόν τι αὐτὸν οἴει ἀποκρινεῖσθαι τὸ φαινόμενον ἑαυτῷ, ἐάν τε ἡμεῖς ἀπαγορεύωμεν, ἐάν τε μή; Ἄλλο τι οὖν, ἔφη, καὶ σὺ οὕτω ποιήσεις; ὧν ἐγὼ ἀπεῖπον, τούτων τι ἀποκρινεῖ; Οὐκ ἂν θαυμάσαιμι, ἦν δ’ ἐγώ, εἴ μοι σκεψαμένῳ οὕτω δόξειεν.

This passage deserves notice, inasmuch as Plato here affirms, in very plain language, the Protagorean doctrine, which we have seen him trying to refute in the Theætêtus and Kratylus, — “Homo Mensura, — Every man is a measure to himself. That is true or false to every man which appears to him so.”

Most of Plato’s dialogues indeed imply this truth; for no man makes more constant appeal to the internal assent or dissent of the individual interlocutor. But it is seldom that he declares it in such express terms.

14Plato, Republic, i. p. 337 D.

Definition given by Thrasymachus — Justice is that which is advantageous to the more powerful. Comments by Sokrates. What if the powerful man mistakes his own advantage?

After a few more words, in the same offensive and insolent tone ascribed to him from the beginning, Thrasymachus produces his definition of Justice:— “Justice is that which is advantageous to the more powerful”. Some comments from Sokrates bring out a fuller explanation, whereby the definition stands amended:— “Justice is that which is advantageous to the constituted authority, or to that which holds power, in each different community: monarchy, oligarchy, or democracy, as the case may be. Each of these authorities makes laws and ordinances for its own interest: declares what is just and unjust: and punishes all citizens who infringe its commands. Justice consists in obeying these commands. In this sense, justice is everywhere that which is for the interest or advantage of the more powerful.”15 “I too believe” (says Sokrates) 9“that justice is something advantageous, in a certain sense. But whether you are right in adding these words — ‘to the more powerful’ — is a point for investigation.16 Assuming that the authorities in each state make ordinances for their own advantage, you will admit that they sometimes mistake, and enact ordinances tending to their own disadvantage. In so far as they do this, justice is not that which is advantageous, but that which is disadvantageous, to the more powerful.17 Your definition therefore will not hold.”

15Plato, Republic, i. pp. 338-339.

16Plato, Republic, i. p. 339 B. ἐπειδὴ γὰρ ξυμφέρον γέ τι εἶναι καὶ ἐγὼ ὁμολογῶ τὸ δίκαιον, σὺ δὲ προστίθης καὶ αὐτὸ φὴς εἶναι τὸ τοῦ κρείττονος, ἐγὼ δὲ ἀγνοῶ, σκεπτέον δή.

17Plato, Republic, i. p. 339 E.

Correction by Thrasymachus — if the Ruler mistakes, he is pro tanto no Ruler — The Ruler, quâ Ruler — quâ Craftsman — is infallible.

Thrasymachus might have replied to this objection by saying, that he meant what the superior power conceived to be for its own advantage, and enacted accordingly, whether such conception was correct or erroneous. This interpretation, though indicated by a remark put into the mouth of Kleitophon, is not farther pursued.18 But in the reply really ascribed to Thrasymachus, he is made to retract what he had just before admitted — that the superior authority sometimes commits mistakes. In so far as a superior or a ruler makes mistakes (Thrasymachus says), he is not a superior. We say, indeed, speaking loosely, that the ruler falls into error, just as we say that the physician or the steersman falls into error. The physician does not err quâ physician, nor the steersman quâ steersman. No craftsman errs quâ craftsman. If he errs, it is not from his craft, but from want of knowledge: that is, from want of craft.19 What the ruler, as such, declares to be best for himself, and therefore enacts, is always really best for himself: this is justice for the persons under his rule.

18Plato, Republic, i. p. 340 B.

19Plato, Republic, i. p. 340 E. ἐπιλιπούσης γὰρ ἐπιστήμης ὁ ἁμαρτάνων ἁμαρτάνει, ἐν ᾧ οὔκ ἐστι δημιουργός· ὥστε δημιουργὸς ἢ σοφὸς ἢ ἄρχων οὐδεὶς ἁμαρτάνει τότε ὅταν ἄρχων ᾖ.

Reply by Sokrates — The Ruler, quâ infallible Craftsman, studies the interest of those whom he governs, and not his own interest.

To this subtle distinction, Sokrates replies by saying (in substance), “If you take the craftsman in this strict meaning, as representing the abstraction Craft, it is not true that his proceedings are directed towards his own interest or advantage. What he studies is, 10the advantage of his subjects or clients, not his own. The physician, as such, has it in view to cure his patients: the steersman, to bring his passengers safely to harbour: the ruler, so far forth as craftsman, makes laws for the benefit of his subjects, and not for his own. If obedience to these laws constitutes justice, therefore, it is not true that justice consists in what is advantageous to the superior or governing power. It would rather consist in what is advantageous to the governed.”20

20Plato, Republic, i. p. 342.

Thrasymachus denies this — Justice is the good of another. The just many are worse off than the unjust One, and are forced to submit to his superior strength.

Thrasymachus is now represented as renouncing the abstraction above noted,21 and reverting to the actualities of life. “Such talk is childish!” (he exclaims, with the coarseness imputed to him in this dialogue). “Shepherds and herdsmen tend and fatten their flocks and herds, not for the benefit of the sheep and oxen, but for the profit of themselves and the proprietors. So too the genuine ruler in a city: he regards his subjects as so many sheep, looking only to the amount of profit which he can draw from them.22 Justice is, in real truth, the good of another; it is the profit of him who is more powerful and rules — the loss of those who are weaker and must obey. It is the unjust man who rules over the multitude of just and well-meaning men. They serve him because he is the stronger: they build up his happiness at the cost of their own. Everywhere, both in private dealing and in public function, the just man is worse off than the unjust. I mean by the unjust, one who has the power to commit wrongful seizure on a large scale. You may see this if you look at the greatest injustice of all — the case of the despot, who makes himself happy while the juster men over whom he rules are miserable. One who is detected in the commission of petty crimes is punished, and gets a bad name: but if a man has force enough to commit crime on the grand scale, to enslave the persons of the citizens, and to appropriate their goods — instead of being called by a bad name, he is envied and regarded as happy, not only by the citizens themselves, but by all who 11hear him named. Those who blame injustice, do so from the fear of suffering it, not from the fear of doing it. Thus then injustice, in its successful efficiency, is strong, free, and over-ruling, as compared with justice. Injustice is profitable to a man’s self: justice (as I said before) is what is profitable to some other man stronger than he.”23

21Plato, Republic, p. 345 B-C.

22Plato, Republic, p. 343 B.

A similar comparison is put into the mouth of Sokrates himself by Plato in the Theætêtus, p. 174 D.

23Plato, Republic, i. pp. 343-344.

Position laid for the subsequent debate and exposition.

Thrasymachus is described as laying down this position in very peremptory language, and as anxious to depart immediately after it, if he had not been detained by the other persons present. His position forms the pivot of the subsequent conversation. The two opinions included in it — (That justice consists in obedience yielded by the weak to the orders of the strong, for the advantage of the strong — That injustice, if successful, is profitable and confers happiness: justice the contrary) — are disputed, both of them, by Sokrates as well as by Glaukon.24

24Plato, Repub. i. pp. 345 A-348 A.

Arguments of Sokrates — Injustice is a source of weakness — Every multitude must observe justice among themselves, in order to avoid perpetual quarrels. The same about any single individual: if he is unjust, he will be at war with himself, and perpetually weak.

Sokrates is represented as confuting and humiliating Thrasymachus by various arguments, of which the two first at least are more subtle than cogent.25 He next proceeds to argue that injustice, far from being a source of strength, is a source of weakness — That any community of men, among whom injustice prevails, must be in continual dispute; and therefore incapable of combined action against others — That a camp of mercenary soldiers or robbers, who plunder every one else, must at least observe justice among themselves — That if they have force, this is because they are unjust only by halves: that if they were thoroughly unjust, they would also be thoroughly impotent — That the like is true also of an individual separately taken, who, so far as he is unjust, is in a perpetual state of hatred and conflict with himself, as well as with just men and with the Gods: and would thus be divested of all power to accomplish any purpose.26

25Plato, Republic, i. pp. 346-350.

26Plato, Republic, i. pp. 351-352 D.

Farther argument of Sokrates — The just man is happy, the unjust man miserable — Thrasymachus is confuted and silenced. Sokrates complains that he does not yet know what Justice is.

Having thus shown that justice is stronger than injustice, Sokrates next offers an argument to prove that it is happier or confers more happiness than injustice. 12The conclusion of this argument is — That the just man is happy, and the unjust miserable.27 Thrasymachus is confuted, and retires humiliated from the debate. Yet Sokrates himself is represented as dissatisfied with the result. “At the close of our debate” (he says) “I find that I know nothing about the matter. For as I do not know what justice is, I can hardly expect to know whether it is a virtue or not; nor whether the man who possesses it is happy or not happy.”28

27Plato, Republic, i. pp. 353-354 A.

28Plato, Republic, i. fin. p. 354 C. ὥστε μοι γέγονεν ἐκ τοῦ διαλόγου μηδὲν εἰδέναι· ὁπότε γὰρ τὸ δίκαιον μὴ οἶδα ὃ ἐστι, σχολῇ εἴσομαι εἴτε ἀρετή τις οὖσα τυγχάνει εἴτε καὶ οὔ, καὶ πότερον ὁ ἔχων αὐτὸ οὐκ εὐδαίμων ἐστὶν ἢ εὐδαίμων.

Glaukon intimates that he is not satisfied with the proof, though he agrees in the opinion expressed by Sokrates. Tripartite distribution of Good — To which of the three heads does Justice belong?

Here Glaukon enters the lists, intimating that he too is dissatisfied with the proof given by Sokrates, that justice is every way better than injustice: though he adopts the conclusion, and desires much to hear it fully demonstrated. “You know” (he says), “Sokrates, that there are three varieties of Good — 1. Good, per se, and for its own sake (apart from any regard to ulterior consequences): such as enjoyment and the innocuous pleasures. 2. Good both in itself, and by reason of its ulterior consequences: such as full health, perfect vision, intelligence, &c. 3. Good, not in itself, but altogether by reason of its consequences: such as gymnastic training, medical treatment, professional business, &c. Now in which of these branches do you rank Justice?” S. — I rank it in the noblest — that is — in the second branch: which is good both in itself, and by reason of its consequences. G. — Most persons put it in the third branch: as being in itself difficult and laborious, but deserving to be cultivated in consequence of the reward and good name which attaches to the man who is reputed just.29 S. — I know that this is the view taken by Thrasymachus and many others: but it is not mine. G. — Neither is it mine.

29Plato, Republic, ii. p. 357.

Glaukon undertakes to set forth the case against Sokrates, though professing not to agree with it.

Yet still I think that you have not made out your case against Thrasymachus, and that he has given up the game too readily. I will therefore re-state his argument, 13not at all adopting his opinion as my own, but simply in order to provoke a full refutation of it from you, such as I have never yet heard from any one. First, I shall show what his partisans say as to the nature and origin of justice. Next, I shall show that all who practise justice, practise it unwillingly; not as good per se, but as a necessity. Lastly, I shall prove that such conduct on their part is reasonable. If these points can be made out, it will follow that the life of the unjust man is much better than that of the just.30

30Plato, Republic, ii. p. 358.

Pleading of Glaukon. Justice is in the nature of a compromise for all — a medium between what is best and what is worst.

The case, as set forth first by Glaukon, next by Adeimantus, making themselves advocates of Thrasymachus — is as follows. “To do injustice, is by nature good: to suffer injustice is by nature evil: but the last is greater as an evil, than the first as a good: so that when men have tasted of both, they find it advantageous to agree with each other, that none shall either do or suffer injustice. These agreements are embodied in laws; and what is prescribed by the law is called lawful and just. Here you have the generation and essence of justice, which is intermediate between what is best and what is worst: that is, between the power of committing injustice with impunity, and the liability to suffer injustice without protection or redress. Men acquiesce in such compromise, not as in itself good, but because they are too weak to commit injustice safely. For if any man were strong enough to do so, and had the dispositions of a man, he would not make such a compromise with any one: it would be madness in him to do so.31

31Plato, Republic, ii. pp. 358-359.

“That men are just, only because they are too weak to be unjust, will appear if we imagine any of them, either the just or the unjust, armed with full power and impunity, such as would be conferred by the ring of Gyges, which rendered the wearer invisible at pleasure. If the just man could become thus privileged, he would act in the same manner as the unjust: his temper would never be adamantine enough to resist the temptations which naturally prompt every man to unlimited 14satisfaction of his desires. Such temptations are now counteracted by the force of law and opinion; but if these sanctions were nullified, every man, just or unjust, would seize every thing that he desired, without regard to others. When he is just, he is so not willingly, but by compulsion. He chooses that course not as being the best for him absolutely, but as the best which his circumstances will permit.

Comparison of the happiness of the just man derived from his justice alone, when others are unjust to him with that of the unjust man under parallel circumstances.

“To determine which of the two is happiest, the just man or the unjust, let us assume each to be perfect in his part, and then compare them. The unjust man must be assumed to have at his command all means of force and fraud, so as to procure for himself the maximum of success; i.e., the reputation of being a just man, along with all the profitable enormities of injustice. Against him we will set the just man, perfect in his own simplicity and righteousness; a man who cares only for being just in reality, and not for seeming to be so. We shall suppose him, though really just, to be accounted by every one else thoroughly unjust. It is only thus that we can test the true value of his justice: for if he be esteemed just by others, he will be honoured and recompensed, so that we cannot be sure that his justice is not dictated by regard to these adventitious consequences. He must be assumed as just through life, yet accounted by every one else unjust, and treated accordingly: while the unjust man, with whom we compare him, is considered and esteemed by others as if he were perfectly just. Which of the two will have the happiest life? Unquestionably the unjust man. He will have all the advantages derived from his unscrupulous use of means, together with all that extrinsic favour and support which proceeds from good estimation on the part of others: he will acquire superior wealth, which will enable him both to purchase partisans, and to offer costly sacrifices ensuring to him the patronage of the Gods. The just man, on the contrary, will not only be destitute of all these advantages, but will be exposed to a life of extreme suffering and torture. He will learn by painful experience that his happiness depends, not upon being really just, but upon being accounted just by others.”32

32Plato, Republic, ii. pp. 361-362.

15Pleading of Adeimantus on the same side. He cites advice given by fathers to their sons, recommending just behaviour by reason of its consequences.

Here Glaukon concludes. Adeimantus now steps in as second counsel on the same side, to the following effect:33 “Much yet remains to be added to the argument. To make it clearer, we must advert to the topics insisted on by those who oppose Glaukon — those who panegyrise justice and denounce injustice. A father, who exhorts his sons to be just, says nothing about the intrinsic advantages of justice per se: he dwells upon the beneficial consequences which will accrue to them from being just. Through such reputation they will obtain from men favours, honours, commands, prosperous alliances — from the Gods, recompenses yet more varied and abundant. If, on the contrary, they commit injustice, they will be disgraced and ill-treated among men, severely punished by the Gods. Such are the arguments whereby a father recommends justice, and dissuades injustice, he talks about opinions and after consequences only, he says nothing about justice or injustice in themselves. Such are the allegations even of those who wish to praise and enforce justice. But there are others, and many among them, who hold an opposite language, proclaiming unreservedly that temperance and justice are difficult to practise — injustice and intemperance easy and agreeable, though law and opinion brand them as disgraceful. These men affirm that the unjust life is for the most part more profitable than the just. They are full of panegyrics towards the wealthy and powerful, however unprincipled; despising the poor and weak, whom nevertheless they admit to be better men.34 They even say that the Gods themselves entail misery upon many good men, and confer prosperity on the wicked. Then there come the prophets and jugglers, who profess to instruct rich men, out of many books, composed by Orpheus and Musæus, how they may by appropriate presents and sacrifices atone for all their crimes and die happy.35

33Plato, Republic, ii. pp. 362-367.

34Plato, Republic, ii. p. 364 A-B.

35Plato, Republic, p. 364 C-E.

“When we find that the case is thus stated respecting justice, both by its panegyrists and by its enemies — that the former extol it only from the reputation which it procures, and that 16the latter promise to the unjust man, if clever and energetic, a higher recompense than any such reputation can obtain for him — what effect can we expect to be produced on the minds of young men of ability, station, and ambition? What course of life are they likely to choose? Surely they will thus reason: A just life is admitted to be burdensome — and it will serve no purpose, unless I acquire, besides, the reputation of justice in the esteem of others. Now the unjust man, who can establish such reputation, enjoys the perfection of existence. My happiness turns not upon the reality, but upon the seeming: upon my reputation with others.36 Such reputation then it must be my aim to acquire. I must combine the real profit of injustice with the outside show and reputation of justice. Such combination is difficult: but all considerable enterprises are difficult: I must confederate with partisans to carry my point by force or fraud. If I succeed, I attain the greatest prize to which man can aspire. I may be told that the Gods will punish me; but the same poets, who declare the existence of the Gods, assure me also that they are placable by prayer and sacrifice: and the poets are as good authority on the one point as on the other.37 Such” (continues Adeimantus) “will be the natural reasoning of a powerful, energetic, aspiring, man. How can we expect that such a man should prefer justice, when the rewards of injustice on its largest scale are within his reach?38 Unless he be averse to injustice, from some divine peculiarity of disposition — or unless he has been taught to abstain from it by the acquisition of knowledge, — he will treat the current encomiums on justice as ridiculous. No man is just by his own impulse. Weak men or old men censure injustice, because they have not force enough to commit it with success: which is proved by the fact than any one of them who acquires power, immediately becomes unjust as far as his power reaches.

36Plat. Rep. ii. pp. 365 E, 366 A.

37Plat. Rep. ii. p. 365 B-D.

38Plat. Rep. ii. p. 366 B-D.

Nobody recommends Justice per se, but only by reason of its consequences.

“The case as I set it forth” (pursues Adeimantus) “admits of no answer on the ground commonly taken by those who extol justice and blame injustice, from the earliest poets down to the present day.39 What they 17praise is not justice per se, but the reputation which the just man obtains, and the consequences flowing from it. What they blame is not injustice per se, but its results. They never commend, nor even mention, justice as it exists in and moulds the internal mind and character of the just man; even though he be unknown, misconceived and detested, by Gods as well as by men. Nor do they ever talk of the internal and intrinsic effects of injustice upon the mind of the unjust man, but merely of his ulterior prospects. They never attempt to show that injustice itself, in the mind of the unjust man, is the gravest intrinsic evil: and justice in the mind of the just man, the highest intrinsic good: apart from consequences on either side. If you had all held this language from the beginning, and had impressed upon us such persuasion from our childhood, there would have been no necessity for our keeping watch upon each other to prevent injustice. Every man would have been the best watch upon himself, through fear lest by becoming unjust he might take into his own bosom the gravest evil.40

39Plat. Rep. ii. p. 366 D-E. πάντων ὑμῶν, ὅσοι ἐπαινέται φατὲ δικαιοσύνης εἶναι, ἀπὸ τῶν ἐξ ἀρχῆς ἡρώων ἀρξάμενοι, ὅσων λόγοι λελειμμένοι, μέχρι τῶν νῦν ἀνθρώπων, οὐδεὶς πώποτε ἔψεξεν ἀδικίαν οὐδ’ ἐπῄνεσε δικαιοσύνην ἄλλως ἢ δόξας τε καὶ τιμὰς καὶ δωρεὰς τὰς ἀπ’ αὐτῶν δυνάμει ἐν τῇ τοῦ ἔχοντος ψυχῇ ἐνὸν καὶ λανθάνον θεούς τε καὶ ἀνθρώπους, οὐδεὶς πώποτε οὔτ’ ἐν ποιήσει οὔτ’ ἐν ἰδίοις λόγοις ἐπεξῆλθεν ἱκανῶς τῷ λόγῳ, &c. Compare p. 362 E.

Whoever reads this, will see that Plato does not intend (as most of his commentators assert) that the arguments which Sokrates combats in the Republic were the invention of Protagoras, Prodikus, and other Sophists of the Platonic century.

40Plato, Republic, ii. p. 367 A. εἰ γὰρ οὔτως ἐλέγετο ἐξ ἀρχῆς ὑπὸ πάντων ὑμῶν, καὶ ἐκ νέων ἡμᾶς ἐπείθετε, οὐκ ἀν ἀλλήλους ἐφυλάττομεν μὴ ἀδικεῖν, ἀλλ’ αὐτὸς αὑτοῦ ἦν ἕκαστος φύλαξ, δεδιὼς μὴ ἀδικῶν τῷ μεγίστῳ κακῷ ξύνοικος ᾖ.

Adeimantus calls upon Sokrates to recommend and enforce Justice on its own grounds, and to explain how Justice in itself benefits the mind of the just man.

“Here therefore is a deficiency in the argument on behalf of justice, which I call upon you,41 Sokrates, who have employed all your life in these meditations, to supply. You have declared justice to be good indeed for its consequences, but still more of a good from its own intrinsic nature. Explain how it is good, and how injustice is evil, in its own intrinsic nature: what effect each produces on the mind, so as to deserve such an appellation. Omit all notice of consequences accruing to the just or unjust man, from the opinion, favourable or otherwise, entertained towards him by others. You must even go farther: you must suppose that both 18of them are misconceived, and that the just man is disgraced and punished as if he were unjust — the unjust man honoured and rewarded as if he were just. This is the only way of testing the real intrinsic value of justice and injustice, considered in their effects upon the mind. If you expatiate on the consequences — if you regard justice as in itself indifferent, but valuable on account of the profitable reputation which it procures, and injustice as in itself profitable, but dangerous to the unjust man from the hostile sentiment and damage which it brings upon him — the real drift of your exhortation will be, to make us aspire to be unjust in reality, but to aim at maintaining a reputation of justice along with it. In that line of argument you will concede substantially the opinion of Thrasymachus — That justice is another man’s good, the advantage of the more powerful: and injustice the good or profit of the agent, but detrimental to the weaker.”42

41Plat. Rep. ii. p. 367 E. διότι πάντα τὸν βίον οὐδὲν ἄλλο σκοπῶν διελήλυθας ἢ τοῦτο (you, Sokrates).

42Plat. Republic, ii. p. 367 C-D.

Relation of Glaukon and Adeimantus to Thrasymachus.

With the invocation here addressed to Sokrates, Adeimantus concludes his discourse. Like Glaukon, he disclaims participation in the sentiments which the speech embodies. Both of them, professing to be dissatisfied with the previous refutation of Thrasymachus by Sokrates, call for a deeper exposition of the subject. Both of them then enunciate a doctrine, resembling partially, though not entirely, that of Thrasymachus — but without his offensive manner, and with superior force of argument. They propose it as a difficult problem, which none but Sokrates can adequately solve. He accepts the challenge, though with apparent diffidence: and we now enter upon his solution, which occupies the remaining eight books and a half of the Republic. All these last books are in fact expository, though in the broken form of dialogue. The other speakers advance scarce any opinions for Sokrates to confute, but simply intervene with expressions of assent, or doubt, or demand for farther information.

Statement of the question as it stands after the speeches of Glaukon and Adeimantus. What Sokrates undertakes to prove.

I here repeat the precise state of the question, which is very apt to be lost amidst the mæanderings of a Platonic dialogue.

First, What is Justice? Sokrates had declared at 19the close of the first book, that he did not know what Justice was; and that therefore he could not possibly decide, whether it was a virtue or not:— nor whether the possessor of it was happy or not.

Secondly, To which of the three classes of good things does Justice belong? To the second class — i. e. things good per se, and good also in their consequences? Or to the third class — i. e. things not good per se, but good only in their consequences? Sokrates replies (in the beginning of the second book) that it belongs to the second class.

Evidently, these two questions cannot stand together. In answering the second, Sokrates presupposes a certain determination of the first; inconsistent with that unqualified ignorance, of which he had just made profession. Sokrates now professes to know, not merely that Justice is a good, but to what class of good things it belongs. The first question has thus been tacitly dropped without express solution, and has given place to the second. Yet Sokrates, in providing his answer to the second, includes implicitly an answer to the first, so far as to assume that Justice is a good thing, and proceeds to show in what way it is good.

Some say that Justice is good (i.e. that it ensures, or at least contributes to, the happiness of the agent), but not per se: only in its ulterior consequences. Taken per se, it imposes privation, loss, self-denial; diminishing instead of augmenting the agent’s happiness. But taken along with its results, this preliminary advance is more than adequately repaid; since without it the agent would not obtain from others that reciprocity of justice, forbearance, and good treatment without which his life would be intolerable.

If this last opinion be granted, Glaukon argues that Justice would indeed be good for weak and middling agents, but not for men of power and energy, who had a good chance of extorting the benefit without paying the antecedent price. And Thrasymachus, carrying this view still farther, assumes that there are in every society men of power who despotise over the rest; and maintains that Justice consists, for the society generally, in obeying the orders of these despots. It is all gain to the strong, all loss to the weak. These latter profit by it in no other way 20than by saving themselves from farther punishment or ill usage on the part of the strong.

Position to be proved by Sokrates — Justice makes the just man happy per se, whatever be its results.

Sokrates undertakes to maintain the opposite — That Justice is a good per se, ensuring the happiness of the agent by its direct and intrinsic effects on the mind: whatever its ulterior consequences may be. He maintains indeed that these ulterior consequences are also good: but that they do not constitute the paramount benefit, or the main recommendation of Justice: that the good of Justice per se is much greater. In this point of view, Justice is not less valuable and necessary to the strong than to the weak. He proceeds to show, what Justice is, and how it is beneficial per se to the agent, apart from consequences: also, what Injustice is, and how it is injurious to the agent per se, apart from consequences.43

43Plato, Republic, ii. pp. 368 seq.

Argument of Sokrates to show what Justice is — Assumed analogy between the city…"
