"Years





The sun and moon are appointed to mark out.

Genesis 1:14 And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years:

Early computation of time by.

Genesis 5:3 And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and Begat a son in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth:

DIVIDED INTO

Seasons.

Genesis 8:22 While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

Months.

Genesis 7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.

1 Chronicles 27:1 Now the children of Israel after their number, to wit, the chief Fathers and Captains of thousands and hundreds, and their officers that served the king in any matter of the courses, which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, of every course were twenty and four thousand.

Weeks.

Daniel 9:27 And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week: and in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease, and for the overspreading of abominations he shall make it desolate, even until the consummation, and that determined shall be poured upon the desolate.

Luke 18:12 I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.

Days.

Genesis 25:7 And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.

Esther 9:27 The Jews ordained, and took upon them, and upon their seed, and upon all such as joined themselves unto them, so as it should not fail, that they would keep these two days according to their writing, and according to their appointed time every year;

Length of, during the patriarchal age.

Genesis 7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.

Genesis 8:13 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first month, the First Day of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.

Genesis 7:24 And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days.

Genesis 8:3 And the waters returned from off the earth continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were Abated.

Commencement of, changed after the exodus.

Exodus 12:2 This month shall be unto you the beginning of months: it shall be the first month of the year to you.

REMARKABLE;

Sabbatical.

Leviticus 25:4 But in the seventh year shall be a Sabbath of rest unto the land, a Sabbath for the LORD: thou shalt neither sow thy field, nor prune thy vineyard.

Jubilee.

Leviticus 25:11 A jubile shall that fiftieth year be unto you: ye shall not sow, neither reap that which groweth of itself in it, nor gather the grapes in it of thy vine undressed.

In prophetic computation, days reckoned as.

Daniel 12:11-12 And from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away, and the Abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days. 12 Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and five and thirty days.

ILLUSTRATIVE

(Coming to,) of manhood.

Hebrews 11:24 By Faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter;

(Well stricken in,) of old age.

Luke 1:7 And they had no child, because that Elisabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years.

(Being full of,) of old age.

Genesis 25:8 Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people.

(Acceptable,) of the dispensation of the Gospel.

Isaiah 61:2 To proclaim the acceptable year of the LORD, and the day of Vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn;

Luke 4:19 To preach the acceptable year of the Lord.

(Of the right hand of the Most High,) of prosperity.

Psalm 77:10 And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years of the right hand of the most High.

(Of the redeemed,) of redemption by Christ.

Isaiah 63:4 For the day of Vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is come.

(Of visitation,) of severe judgments.

Jeremiah 11:23 And there shall be no remnant of them: for I will bring evil upon the men of Anathoth, even the year of their visitation.

Jeremiah 23:12 Wherefore their way shall be unto them as slippery ways in the darkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein: for I will bring evil upon them, even the year of their visitation, saith the LORD.

(Of recompenses,) of judgments.

Isaiah 34:8 For it is the day of the LORDS' Vengeance, and the year of recompences for the controversy of Zion."
