"The Project Gutenberg eBook of A Beginner's History of Philosophy, Vol. 1: Ancient and Mediæval Philosophy
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
Title: A Beginner's History of Philosophy, Vol. 1: Ancient and Mediæval Philosophy

Author: Herbert Ernest Cushman


Release date: March 21, 2020 [eBook #61651]
Most recently updated: October 17, 2024

Language: English

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/61651

Credits: Produced by Richard Hulse and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A BEGINNER'S HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY, VOL. 1: ANCIENT AND MEDIÆVAL PHILOSOPHY ***

A BEGINNER’S HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY

SOCRATES

Transcriber’s Notes

The cover image was provided by the transcriber and is placed in the public domain.

Punctuation has been standardized.

Most abbreviations have been expanded in tool-tips for screen-readers and may be seen by hovering the mouse over the abbreviation.

This book was written in a period when many words had not become standardized in their spelling. Words may have multiple spelling variations or inconsistent hyphenation in the text. These have been left unchanged unless indicated with a Transcriber’s Note.

Index references have not been checked for accuracy.

Footnotes are identified in the text with a superscript number and have been accumulated in a table at the end of the text.

Transcriber’s Notes are used when making corrections to the text or to provide additional information for the modern reader. These notes have been accumulated in a table at the end of the book and are identified in the text by a dotted underline and may be seen in a tool-tip by hovering the mouse over the underline.

A BEGINNER’S HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY

BY

HERBERT ERNEST CUSHMAN, LL.D., Ph.D.

Sometime Professor of Philosophy in Tufts College
Lecturer of Philosophy in Harvard College
Lecturer of Philosophy in Dartmouth College

VOL. I

ANCIENT AND MEDIÆVAL PHILOSOPHY

Revised Edition


HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY

BOSTON · NEW YORK · CHICAGO
DALLAS · SAN FRANCISCO

The Riverside Press Cambridge

COPYRIGHT, 1910 AND 1918, BY HERBERT ERNEST CUSHMAN

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, INCLUDING THE RIGHT TO REPRODUCE THIS BOOK OR PARTS THEREOF IN ANY FORM

The Riverside Press

CAMBRIDGE · MASSACHUSETTS
PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.

TO

GEORGE HERBERT PALMER, Litt.D., LL.D.

ALFORD PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY

IN HARVARD UNIVERSITY

WHO HAS INTERPRETED LIFE TO

MANY YOUNG MEN BY MAKING

PHILOSOPHY A LIVING

SUBJECT TO THEM

PREFACE
This book is intended as a text-book for sketch-courses in the history of philosophy. It is written for the student rather than for the teacher. It is a history of philosophy upon the background of geography and of literary and political history.

As a text-book for sketch-courses it employs summaries, tables, and other generalizations as helps to the memory. The philosophical teaching is presented as simply as possible, so as to bring into prominence only the leading doctrines. My own personal criticism and interpretation on the one hand, and explanations in technical language on the other, have been avoided as far as possible. Sometimes I have had to choose between interpretation and technicality, in which case the limitations of space have determined my choice. Since the book is intended for the student rather than for the teacher, it makes the teacher all the more necessary; for it puts into the hands of the student an outline and into the hands of the teacher the class-room time for inspiring the student with his own interpretations. In making use of geographical maps, contemporary literature, and political history, this book is merely utilizing for pedagogical reasons the stock of information with which the college student is furnished when he begins the history of philosophy.

A good many years of experience in teaching the history of philosophy to beginners have convinced me that students come to the subject with four classes of ideas, with which they can correlate philosophic doctrines: good geographical knowledge, some historical and some literary knowledge, and many undefined personal philosophical opinions. Of course, their personal philosophical opinions form the most important group, but more as something to be clarified by the civilizing influence of the subject than as an approach to the subject itself. The only “memory-hooks” upon which the teacher may expect to hang philosophic doctrines are the student’s ideas of history, literature, and geography. If the history of philosophy is treated only as a series of doctrines, the student beginning the subject feels not only that the land is strange, but that he is a stranger in it. Besides, to isolate the historical philosophical doctrines is to give the student a wrong historical perspective, since philosophic thought and contemporary events are two inseparable aspects of history. Each interprets the other, and neither can be correctly understood without the other. If the history of philosophy is to have any significance for the beginner, it must be shown to give a meaning to history.

So far as the materials that form any history of philosophy are concerned, I have merely tried to arrange and organize them with reference to the student and with reference to the history of which they form an integral part. I am therefore overwhelmingly indebted to every good authority to whom I have had access, but in the main I have followed the inspiring direction of the great Windelband. Many willing friends have read parts of the manuscript and offered suggestions and criticisms. I am particularly indebted to Professors C. P. Parker, Ephraim Emerton, A. O. Norton, and J. H. Ropes, and Dr. B. A. G. Fuller of Harvard University; to Professor Mary W. Calkins of Wellesley College; to Professors C. S. Wade and D. L. Maulsby of Tufts College; and to my wife, Abby B. Cushman. However, for all the faults of the book, which has been many years in preparation, I am alone responsible.

Instead of lists of books for collateral reading, placed at the end of chapters or of the book, the student will find references in the footnotes to the exact pages of many helpful books. I should like to call the student’s attention to an appendix to the discussion of Plato. This is a complete selection of passages from Plato made by the late Professor Jowett for English readers. This selection Professor Jowett was accustomed to distribute to his Oxford class, of which I was once fortunate to be a member.

Philosophical terms have been defined either in the text or in the footnotes. Such definitions must necessarily have as their aim their usefulness to the student, rather than their completeness.

Tufts College, June, 1910.

PREFACE TO THE REVISED EDITION
The only change which the reader will find in the revision of this volume is in the form of presentation of the philosophies of the earlier cosmologists (Chapter II).

HERBERT E. CUSHMAN.

West Newton, February, 1918.

CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION—The Three General Periods of the History of Philosophy, 1

The Comparative Lengths of the Three General Periods, 1

The Real Differences of the Three General Periods, 1

Table of the Subdivisions of the Three General Periods, 4

BOOK I. ANCIENT PHILOSOPHY
(625 B. C.–476 A. D.)

CHAPTER I. The Early Greek in Ancient Philosophy, 5

The Divisions of Ancient Philosophy, 5

The Literary Sources of Ancient Philosophy, 6

The Environment of the Early Greek, 7

1. His Geographical Environment 7

2. His Political Environment 7

The Native Tendencies of the Early Greek, as seen (1) In the Development of his Religion, (2) in his Reflections upon Physical Events, and (3) in his Interest in Human Conduct, 9–11

The Three Periods of Greek Philosophy, 12

CHAPTER II. The Cosmological Period: The Philosophy of Nature, 15

The Peril in the Greek Political Situation: Persia and Carthage, 15

The Peril in the New Religion: The Mysteries and Pythagoras, 16

Characteristics of the Cosmologists, 18

Table of Cosmologists, 20

How the Philosophical Question arose, 20

Map showing the Cities where the Cosmologists lived, 21

Summary Comparison of the Monistic Philosophies, 22

1. The Milesian School, 24

The Milesian Philosophy, 25

2. Xenophanes, the Religious Philosopher, 26

The Philosophy of Xenophanes, 27

3. Heracleitus, “the Misanthropist” and “the Obscure,” 28

a. Heracleitus’ Doctrine of Absolute and Universal Change, 28

b. Fire is the Cosmic Substance, 29

c. The Definite Changes of Fire, 30

d. The Practical Philosophy of Heracleitus, 31

4. The Eleatic School, 32

a. Parmenides, 32

(1) The Cosmic Substance is Being, 33

(2) Other Things than the Cosmic Substance (Being) have no Real Existence, 34

b. Zeno, 35

The Philosophy of Zeno, 36

The Results of the Conflict between Heracleitus and Parmenides, 37

CHAPTER III. Pluralism, 39

Efforts toward Reconciliation, 39

The New Conception of Change of the Pluralists, 40

The New Conception of the Unchanging of the Pluralists—The Element, 40

The Introduction of the Conception of the Efficient Cause, 41

Summary of Similarities and Differences IN the Theories of the Reconcilers, 41

The Pluralistic Philosophers: Empedocles, Anaxagoras, Leucippus, and the Later Pythagoreans, 42

The Philosophy of Empedocles, 44

The Philosophy of Anaxagoras, 45

The Philosophy of the Atomists—Leucippus and the School at Abdera, 47

The Later Pythagoreans, 48

1. The Pythagorean Conception of Being, 49

2. The Pythagorean Dualistic World, 51

3. Pythagorean Astronomy, 52

Historical Retrospect, 53

CHAPTER IV. The Anthropological Period: The Philosophy of Man, 55

An Historical Summary of the Anthropological Period, 55

The Persian Wars and the Rise of Athens, 56

The Greek Enlightenment, 58

1. The Impulse for Learning, 58

2. The Practical Need of Knowledge, 59

3. The Critical Attitude of Mind, 61

The Significance of the Sophists, 64

The Prominent Sophists, 67

The Philosophy of the Sophists, 68

1. The Relativism of Protagoras, 69

2. The Nihilism of Gorgias, 70

The Ethics of the Sophists.—The Application of their Critical Theory to Political Life, 71

Summary, 73

CHAPTER V. Socrates, 74

Socrates and Aristophanes, 74

The Personality and Life of Socrates, 75

Socrates and the Sophists, 80

The Unsystematic Character of the Socratic Philosophy, 82

The Ideal of Socrates, 83

What the Socratic Ideal Involves, 85

The Two Steps of the Method of Socrates, 88

Socrates and Athens, 91

The Logical Expedients of Socrates, 92

Socrates and the Lesser Socratics, 93

The Cynic School, 95

The Cyrenaic School, 96

CHAPTER VI. The Systematic Period, 98

The Waning of the Greek National Spirit, 98

The Place of the Three Systematic Philosophers in Greek History, 98

The Fundamental Principle of the Systematic Period, 100

A Summary of Greek Philosophy, 102

Greek Philosophy (objective), 103

Democritus and Plato—Their Similarities and Differences, 104

The Life of Democritus, 106

The Comprehensiveness of the Aim of Democritus, 108

The Enriched Physics of Democritus—Hylozoism becomes Materialism, 109

The Materialistic Psychology of Democritus, 111

Democritus’ Theory of Knowledge—The World of Twofold Reality, 114

The Ethical Theory of Democritus, 116

CHAPTER VII. Plato, 119

Abdera and Athens, 119

The Difficulties in Understanding the Teaching of Plato, 120

The Life and Writings of Plato, 121

1. Plato’s Student Life, 121

2. Plato as Traveler, 122

3. Plato as Teacher of the Academy, 124

Concerning the Dialogues of Plato, 126

The Factors in the Construction of Plato’s Doctrine, 128

1. His Inherited Tendencies, 128

2. His Philosophical Sources, 130

The Divisions of Plato’s Philosophy, 131

Summary of Plato’s Doctrine, 132

The Formation of Plato’s Metaphysics, 132

The Development of Plato’s Metaphysics—The Development of Plato’s Ideas in the Two Drafts, 136

Brief Comparison of the Two Drafts of the Ideas, 137

Comparison of the Two Drafts of Ideas in More Detail, 137

1. The Number of Ideas in the Earlier and Later Drafts compared, 137

2. The Relation of the Ideas and the World of Nature in the Two Drafts compared, 138

3. The Relation among the Ideas in the Two Drafts compared, 140

Plato’s Conception of God, 141

Plato’s Conception of Physical Nature, 142

Plato’s Conception of Man, 144

Plato’s Doctrine of Immortality, 146

1. The Immortality of Pre-Existence, 146

2. The Immortality of Post-Existence, 149

The Two Tendencies in Plato, 150

Platonic Love, 151

Plato’s Theory of Ethics, 153

1. Development of Plato’s Theory of the Good, 153

2. The Four Cardinal Virtues, 154

3. Plato’s Theory of Political Society, 155

Appendix—Jowett’s Selection of Passages from Plato for English Readers, 158

CHAPTER VIII. Aristotle, 166

Aristotle in the Academy and Lyceum, 166

Biography of Aristotle, 168

Brief Chronological Sketch of Aristotle’s Life, 168

Aristotle’s Biography in Detail, 169

1. First Period—Early Influences, 169

2. Second Period—Traveler and Collector, 171

3. Third Period—Administrator of the Lyceum, 172

The Writings of Aristotle, 173

1. The Popular Writings, published by Aristotle himself, 174

2. The Compilations, 175

3. The Didactic Writings, 175

Aristotle’s Starting-Point, 176

The Fundamental Principle in Aristotle’s Philosophy, 177

Aristotle’s Logic, 180

Aristotle’s Metaphysics, 185

1. Development is Purposeful, 185

2. Aristotle’s Two Different Conceptions of Purpose, 187

3. Aristotle’s Conception of God, 190

4. Aristotle’s Conception of Matter, 191

5. Aristotle’s Conception of Nature, 192

The Mechanical Series,—Aristotle’s Theory of Physics, 194

The Teleological Series: The Qualitative Changes of Phenomena, 196

1. The Psychology of Aristotle, 196

2. The Ethics of Aristotle, 199

(a) The Practical Virtues, 200

(b) The Dianoetic Virtues, 201

The Political Philosophy of Aristotle, 202

CHAPTER IX. The Hellenic-Roman Period, 204

Its Time Length, 204

The Fall of the Greek Nation and the Persistence of its Civilization, 204

Map of the Empire of Alexander, showing the Extension of Hellenism, 205

The Two Parts of the Hellenic-Roman Period, 208

1. The Ethical Period, 208

2. The Religious Period, 208

The Undercurrent of Skepticism in the Hellenic-Roman Period, 209

The Fundamental Problem of the Hellenic-Roman Period, 211

The Centres of Hellenism, 213

1. Athens, 213

2. Alexandria, 215

General Characteristics of the Ethical Period, 215

1. The Abandonment of Metaphysical Speculation, 216

2. The Growth of Science, 216

3. Ethics became the Central Interest, 217

The Schools, 218

Map of Athens, showing the Location of the Four Schools, 219

The Old Schools—The Academy and the Lyceum, 220

1. The Academy, 220

2. The Lyceum, 221

The New Schools—The Epicureans and the Stoics, 222

A Summary of the Agreements and Differences of the Stoics and Epicureans, 225

CHAPTER X. Epicureanism, 227

The Life of Epicurus, 227

The Epicureans, 228

Some Types of Hedonism,—Aristippus, Epicurus, and Rousseau, 228

The Epicurean Ideal, 230

The Place of Virtue in Epicureanism, 233

The Epicurean Wise Man, 234

The Epicurean Wise Man in Society, 235

The Great Obstacles to Happiness, 236

Epicurus’ Conception of the Physical World.—Qualified Atomism, 238

CHAPTER XI. Stoicism, 241

The Position of Stoicism in Antiquity, 241

The Three Periods of Stoicism, 242

1. Period of Formulation of the Doctrine, 242

2. Period of Modified Stoicism, 242

3. Period of Roman Stoicism, 243

The Stoic Leaders, 243

The Stoic Writings, 246

The Stoics and Cynics, 246

The Two Prominent Stoic Conceptions, 247

The Conception of Personality, 248

1. The Stoic Psychology, 248

2. The Highest Good, 250

The Conception of Nature, 251

1. Nature is an All-pervading World-Being, 253

2. Nature is an All-compelling Law, 253

3. Nature is Matter, 254

The Conceptions of Nature and Personality supplement Each Other, 256

The Stoic and Society, 257

Duty and Responsibility, 259

The Problem of Evil and the Problem of Freedom, 260

The Modifications of the Stoic Doctrine after the First Period, 261

CHAPTER XII. Skepticism and Eclecticism, 264

The Appearances of Philosophic Skepticism, 264

The Three Phases of Philosophic Skepticism, 265

1. The First Phase of Philosophic Skepticism is called Pyrrhonism, 265

2. The Second Period of Philosophic Skepticism—The Skepticism of the Academy, 266

3. The Third Period of Philosophic Skepticism—Sensationalistic Skepticism, 268

The Last Century and a Half of the Ethical Period, Eclecticism, 269

CHAPTER XIII. The Religious Period, 273

The Two Causes of the Rise of Religious Feeling, 273

The Need of Spiritual Authority, 275

The Rise of the Conception of Spirituality, 277

The Revival of Platonism, 279

The Divisions of the Religious Period, 280

The Hellenic Religious Philosophies, 282

The Introductory Period of Hellenic Religious Philosophy. The Turning to the Past for Spiritual Authority, 282

1. The Greek-Jewish Philosophy of Philo, 282

2. Neo-Pythagoreanism, 285

The Development Period of Hellenic Religious Philosophy. The Turning to the Present for Spiritual Authority. Platonism and Neo-Platonism, 287

Neo-Platonism and the Two Introductory Philosophies, 288

Neo-Platonism and Christianity, 288

The Periods of Neo-Platonism, 290

The Alexandrian School. The Scientific Theory of Neo-Platonism. The Life and Writings of Plotinus, 290

The General Character of the Teaching of Plotinus, 291

The Mystic God, 292

1. The Supra-Consciousness of God, 292

2. The Conception of Dynamic Pantheism, 293

The Two Problems of Plotinus, 293

The World of Emanations.—The Metaphysical Problem of Plotinus, 294

The Spirit, 294

The Soul, 295

Matter, 295

The Return of the Soul to God.—The Ethical Problem of Plotinus, 297

The Syrian School.—The Systematizing of Polytheisms.—Jamblichus, 298

The Athenian School.—Recapitulation.—Proclus, 299

CHAPTER XIV. Patristics.—The Hellenizing of the Gospel, 302

The Early Situation of Christianity, 302

The Philosophies influencing Christian Thought, 305

The Periods of Early Christianity, 306

The Apologists, 307

The Gnostics, 310

The Reaction against Gnosticism.—The Old Catholic Theologians, 312

Origen and the School of Catechists, 314

BOOK II. THE MIDDLE  AGES
(476–1453)

CHAPTER XV. Characteristics and Conditions of the Middle Ages, 319

Comparison of the Hellenic-Roman Period and the Middle Ages, 319

The Mediæval Man, 320

How the Universe appeared to the Mediæval Man, 322

Maps of the Ptolemaic Cosmography, 323, 325

The Mediæval Man at School, 325

A Mediæval Library, 326

1. Books most commonly read, 327

2. Books that the scholars might use, 327

3. The Books most influential philosophically upon the time, 328

The Three Periods of the Middle Ages, 328

Summary of the Political and Educational Worlds of the Mediæval Man, 330

CHAPTER XVI. The Early Period of the Middle Ages, 334

The General Character of the Early Period, 334

An Early Mediæval Geographical Map, 335

The Historical Position of Augustine, 335

The Secular Science, 339

The Life of Augustine, 339

The Two Elements in Augustine’s Teaching, 340

The Neo-Platonic Element: the Inner Certainties of Consciousness, 341

The Authority of the Church according to Augustine, 345

The Dark Ages, 347

The Revival of Charlemagne, 349

John Scotus Erigena: Life and Teaching, 350

The Greek Principle which Erigena formulated for the Middle Ages, 352

The Last Century of the Early Period, 353

CHAPTER XVII. The Transitional Period, 354

The General Character of the Transitional Period, 354

What is Scholasticism? 355

Anselm: Life and Position in Mediæval Philosophy, 359

Anselm’s Arguments for the Existence of God, 361

Roscellinus: Life and Teaching, 361

Storm and Stress, 362

The Life of Abelard, 363

Abelard’s Conceptualism. Universals exist in the Particulars, 364

Abelard’s Rationalism.—The Relation between Reason and Dogma, 365

CHAPTER XVIII. The Period of Classic Scholasticism, 368

The General Character of this Last Period, 368

The Two Civilizations, 369

Map showing the Growth of Mohammedan Civilization in the Middle Ages, 370

The First Contact of the Two Civilizations, 372

The Conflict between the Two Civilizations.—The Crusades, 374

The Revival of Learning, 375

Diagram of Dante’s Poetic Conception of the Universe, 376

The Strength and Burden of Aristotle to the Church, 378

1. The Strength of Aristotle to the Church, 378

2. The Burden of Aristotle to the Church, 379

The Predecessors of Aquinas, 379

The Life of Thomas Aquinas.—The Founder of the Dominican Tradition, 380

The Central Principle of Thomas’s Doctrine—The Twofold Truth, 381

The Problem of Individuality—The Relation of Particulars and Universals, 383

The Primacy of the Will or the Intellect, 385

Duns Scotus, The Founder of the Franciscan Tradition—Life and Philosophical Position, 386

Duns Scotus’s Conception of the Twofold Truth.—The Separation of Science and Religion, 387

The Inscrutable Will of God, 388

The Problem of Individuality, 389

After Duns Scotus, 390

William of Ockam: Life and Teaching, 391

After Ockam, 393

INDEX, 395

ILLUSTRATIONS
Socrates, Frontispiece

Map showing where the Cosmologists lived, 21

The Empire of Alexander, 205

Map of Athens showing the Location of the Four Schools, 219

Ptolemaic Cosmography showing the Division of the Universe into Spheres, 323

Ptolemaic Cosmography showing the Epicyclic Movements of the Planets, 325

Mediæval Geography. The Cosmas Map, A. D. 547, 335

Growth of Mohammedanism during the Middle Ages, showing its Contact with Christian Civilization, 370

Diagram of Dante’s Poetic Conception of the Universe, 376

A BEGINNER’S HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY

INTRODUCTION

THE THREE GENERAL PERIODS OF THE HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY
The Comparative Lengths of the Three General Periods:

Ancient Philosophy, 625 B. C.–476 A. D.

Mediæval Philosophy, 476 A. D.–1453 A. D.

Modern Philosophy, 1453 A. D.–the present time.

These are the three general periods into which the history of philosophy naturally falls. The two dates that form the dividing lines between these three periods are 476, the fall of old Rome, and 1453, the fall of new Rome (Constantinople). From this it will be seen that 1000 years of mediæval life lie between antiquity on the one side and 450 years of modern times on the other. Whatever value may be put upon the respective intellectual products of these three periods, it is important to note the great difference in their time-lengths. It is 2500 years since philosophical reflection began in Europe. Only 450 of these years belong to modern times. In other words, after the European man grew to reflective manhood, two fifths of his life belong to what is known as ancient civilization, two fifths to mediæval, and only one fifth to modern civilization.

The Real Differences of the Three General Periods. The differences between these three periods of the reflective life of the European have been very real. They are not to be explained by merely political shiftings or economic changes; nor are they fully expressed as differences in literary or artistic productions. Their differences lie deeper, for they are differences of mental attitude. The history of philosophy is more profound, more difficult, and more human than any other history, because it is the record of human points of view. A good deal of sympathetic appreciation is demanded if the student takes on the attitude of mind of ancient and mediæval times. One cannot expect to be possessed of such appreciation until one has traversed the history of thought through its entire length.

The history of philosophy is an organic development from an objective to a subjective view of life, with a traditional middle period in which subjective and objective mingle. Ancient thought is properly called objective, the mediæval traditional, the modern subjective. Can we briefly suggest what these abstract terms mean? By the objectivity of ancient thought is meant that the ancient, in making his reflections upon life, starts from the universe as a whole. From this outer point of view he tries to see the interconnections between things. Nature is reality; men and gods are a part of nature. Man’s mental processes even are a part of the totality of things. Even ethically man is not an independent individual, but the member of a state. When the ancient came to make distinctions between mind and matter, he did not think of man as the knower in antithesis to matter as the object known, but he thought of mind and matter as parts of one cosmos. The antithesis in ancient thought is rather between appearances and essence, between non-realities and realities with differing emphasis. The ancient attempts speculatively to reconstruct his world, but it is always from the point of view of the world.

By the traditionalism of mediæval thought is meant that men are controlled in their thinking by a set of authoritative doctrines from the past. In the Middle Ages, as the mediæval period is called, the independent thinking of antiquity had ceased. Men reflected and reflected deeply, but they were constrained by a set of religious traditions. Authority was placed above them and censored their thinking. The objective Christian church and its authority took the place of the objective Greek cosmos. That church had certain infallible dogma, and thinking was allowed only in so far as it clarified dogma.

On the other hand, when we say that modern thought is subjective, we refer to an entire change in the centre of intellectual gravity. The starting-point is not the world, but the individual. The universe is set over against mind (dualism), or is the creation of mind (idealism). In any case the modern man looks upon the universe as his servant, the standard of truth to be found in himself and not in something external. The subject as knower is now placed in antithesis to the object as known, and the object is not independent of the human thinking process. Reality is man rather than the cosmos. The political state is justifiable so long as it enforces the rights of the individual; religious authority is the expression of the individual conscience; physical nature is a human interpretation.1

Plato, Dante, and Goethe are good representatives of these three different historical periods of the human mind. How can they be understood without a philosophical appreciation of the periods in which they lived?

Table of the Subdivisions of the Three General Periods of Philosophy
1. Ancient 625 B. C.–476 A. D.		Greek, 625–322 B. C. (to death of Aristotle).		Cosmological, 625–480 (to Persian Wars).
Anthropological, 480–399 (to death of Socrates).
Systematic, 399–322 (to death of Aristotle).
Hellenic-Roman 322 B. C.–476 A. D. (from death of Aristotle to fall of old Rome).		Ethical, 322 B. C.–1 A. D. (to beginning of Christian era).
Religious, 100 B. C.–476 A. D.
2. Mediæval 476–1453		Early Mediæval, 476–1000 (from the fall of old Rome to the beginnings of modern Europe).
Transitional Mediæval (1000–1200), (from beginnings of modern Europe to Crusades).
Classic Mediæval, 1200–1453 (from the Crusades to the fall of new Rome or Constantinople).
3. Modern 1453–modern times		Renaissance, 1453–1690 (to Locke’s Essay and the English Revolution).		Humanistic, 1453–1600.
Natural Science, 1600–1690.
Enlightenment, 1690–1781 (from Locke’s Essay to Kant’s Critique).
German Idealism, 1781–1831 (from Kant’s Critique to the death of Hegel).
Evolution, 1820 to the present time.
BOOK I

ANCIENT PHILOSOPHY (625 B. C.–476 A. D.)

CHAPTER I

THE EARLY GREEK IN ANCIENT PHILOSOPHY
The Divisions of Ancient Philosophy. The history of ancient philosophy falls naturally into two large divisions: pure Greek philosophy and Hellenic-Roman philosophy (or Greek philosophy in the Roman world). The date, 322 B. C., the death of Aristotle, which marks the line between these two periods, is one of the milestones of history. Alexander the Great had died in 323 B. C. The coincidence of the deaths of Aristotle and Alexander not only suggests their intimate relations as teacher and pupil during their lives, but it throws into contrast Greek civilization before and after them. Before Aristotle and Alexander culture was the product entirely of the pure Greek spirit; after them ancient culture was the complex product of many factors—of Greek and Roman civilizations, and many Oriental religions, including Christianity. Before Aristotle and Alexander, ancient culture was characterized by a love of knowledge for its own sake, by freedom from ulterior ends either of service or of use; after these great makers of history, culture became attenuated to work in the special sciences and enslaved to practical questions. Before Aristotle and Alexander, the Greek city-states had arisen to political power; after Aristotle and Alexander, Greece declined politically and was absorbed into the Roman empire.

The Literary Sources of Ancient Philosophy.2 The literary sources of ancient philosophy are three: (1) the primary sources, or original writings; (2) the secondary sources, or reports of the original writers obtained indirectly, or through other writers; (3) the interpretations of reliable modern historians of philosophy. The specialist in philosophy will, of course, go to the first two sources for his information. Other students will find many accurate modern histories of ancient philosophy. The student should have at hand the translations of the histories of Zeller, Windelband, Weber, Eucken, Ueberweg; those of the Englishmen, Burnet and Fairbanks; of the Americans, Rogers and Turner.

“The writings of the early Greek philosophers of the pre-Socratic period exist now only in fragments. The complete works of Plato are still extant; so also are the most important works of Aristotle, and certain others which belong to the Stoic, Epicurean, Skeptic, and neo-Platonic schools. We possess the principal works of most of the philosophers of the Christian period in sufficient completeness.”3 The secondary sources include quotations and comments upon earlier philosophers found in the writings of Plato, Aristotle, the Stoics, Skeptics, neo-Platonists, and the so-called doxographers. Doxography—the commentating upon and collating of the works of former times—developed enormously in Alexandria, Pergamos, and Rhodes just after Aristotle. The founder of this work was Theophrastus, who was a disciple of Aristotle and his successor in the Lyceum. Among the important doxographers were Plutarch, Stobæus, and Aetios.

The Environment of the Early Greek. The biologist seeks to explain a living creature by its previous environment and inherited instincts. So if we know the environment and inherited instincts of the early Greek, we shall be able to understand better firstly, why European philosophy began with the Greeks and not with some other people; and secondly, why Greek philosophy took certain lines that it did take.

(1). His Geographical Environment. The Greece into which philosophy was born was much larger than the Greece of to-day. Ancient Greece consisted of all the coasts and islands which were washed by the Mediterranean Sea from Asia Minor to Sicily and southern Italy, and from Cyrene to Thrace. The motherland, the peninsula of Greece, at first played an insignificant rôle. The leadership was in the hands of the Ionians, who had colonized the coasts of Asia Minor. In the seventh century B. C., when the first Greek philosophy appears, these Ionians commanded the world’s commerce among the three continents. Over the coasts of the entire Mediterranean they had extended their trade and established their colonies. Miletus became the wealthiest of these colonies and the cradle of Greek science. Its wealth afforded leisure to its people and therefore the opportunity for reflection.

(2). His Political Environment. An understanding of the Greek political world, in which its first philosophy appeared, requires an historical explanation of its rise. It takes us back four centuries to the age of the Epic (1000–750 B. C.). During more than two centuries of the age of the Epic two changes occurred which were to influence future Greek civilization: (1) The oligarchy which had supplanted the ancient patriarchal monarchy became firmly established; and (2) the Epic was formed. The importance of the Epic of Homer lies not so much in the fact that a great poem was constructed, as that it was the formulation of the Greek religion, the Greek æsthetic polytheism. Its writing indicates that the earlier unorganized, primitive, and savage forms of religion had given way, among the ruling classes at least, to an æsthetic polytheism, which in a general way was fixed by the Epic itself.

The period of more than a century, from 750 to 625 B. C., lying between the age of the Epic and Greek philosophy, may be called an age of political disturbances. The oligarchy had become oppressive to the rich and poor alike. There had grown up in Greece, especially in the colonies, a class of citizens who had become wealthy through commerce. The result of the misgovernment by the oligarchy was that (1) migrations took place, and (2) many revolutions occurred. This was particularly true of the colonies where the proletariat was powerful and the cities were full of adventurers. Plutocracy was at war with aristocracy, and this was the opportunity for bold men. These political troubles took form from 650 B. C. on, and the history of the Greek cities consists of the endeavor to establish popular government. About the time of the first Greek philosophers there arose here and there from the ruins of these civil struggles the so-called tyrants, of whom Thrasybulus at Miletus, Pittacus at Lesbos, Periander at Corinth, and Pisistratus at Athens are examples. The courts of these tyrants became centres of intellectual life. They patronized poets, writers, and artists. The universalism of the Epic had vanished, and in its place came the individualism of the lyric and the satire. In many places the aristocrat went into gloomy retirement, and often cultivated poetry, science, and philosophy.

The Native Tendencies of the Early Greek. Why were the Greeks the first philosophers of Europe? Their geographical surroundings of sea and land had something to do with it. The passionate party strife between the old, ruling families of nobles and the newly rich trading-class, which took place during the seventh century B. C., no doubt cultivated an early independence of opinion and strength of personality. But, after all, genius was in the blood of the race, and who can say that the true cause was not in the mixing of the blood of the virile Aryan invaders with that of the aboriginal inhabitants? Whatever may be the answer to that question, the Greek race in the seventh century B. C. had an extraordinary curiosity about the world of nature. It loved the concrete fact as no other race of the time loved it, and it loved to give a clear and articulate expression to the concrete fact that it saw. It had an artistic nature that was hostile to all confusion. Let us point out three ways in which the Greek was even in this early time organizing his experiences, reflecting upon the workings of social and nature forces, and thus preparing the way for consideration of the more ultimate questions of philosophy.

(1) This can be seen first in the development of his religion. The first step in the organization of his religion we have already seen, for the Homeric epic was the expression of a well-defined, poetic, and æsthetic polytheism developed out of a primitive savage naturalism. The Greek’s sense of measure was shown in the way both gods and men were placed as a part of the world of nature. He could accomplish this the more freely because he had no hierarchy of priests and no dogma of belief to cramp his imagination. The Greek priests did not penetrate into the private life nor teach religion. “They were not theologians but sacristans and liturgical functionaries.” In the fifty years before philosophy appeared, this tendency toward scientific religious organizing showed the beginning of another advance. Monistic belief, of which signs may be found even in the earlier Greek writings, came to the surface. This monism4 was expressed or implied by the Gnomic poets, “wise poets,” so called, because they made sententious utterances upon the principles of morality.

(2) The early genius of the Greek is shown in his reflections upon physical events. The Greek had been accumulating for a long time many kinds of information, but, what is more important, he had been reflecting upon this information. The Ionian was a sea-faring man. He had had much practical experience and had made many true observations about the things he had seen. In his travels he had come in contact with the Orientals and the Egyptians, and although his scientific conceptions were probably in the main his own, his knowledge was undoubtedly increased by his travels. In the seventh century B. C., the Greeks had a respectable body of physical science. It was mostly inorganic science, however,—astronomy, geography, and meteorology. The early Greek knowledge of organic phenomena was very meagre, as, for example, medical and physiological knowledge. They also showed little genuine research in the field of mathematics, although they had picked up mathematical information here and there. Many of the first philosophers were scientists.

(3) Not only did the Greek early bring a religious system out of the chaos of his naturalism, not only did he early throw his physical information into scientific form; but also early did he show an especial interest in human conduct. This can be seen first in Homer (800 B. C.), in a more developed form in Hesiod (700 B. C.), and with still deeper reflection in the Gnomic poets. Although the Iliad is a descriptive poem, it abounds in ethical observations. For example, Hector says, “The best omen is to fight for one’s country”; and Nestor in council says, “A wretch without the tie of kin, a lawless man without a home, is he who delights in civil strife.” The poem by Hesiod (Works and Days) is intended to teach morals. It is distinctly a didactic poem. Hesiod stands at the beginning of a long line of Greek ethical teachers. His moral observations are, however, incoherently expressed. They are not wide generalizations, but are only comments upon single experiences. The Gnomic poets appeared at the end of the seventh century B. C., as the moral reformers in the age of political disturbances. This period was called by the Greeks the age of the Seven Wise Men; for among the men who were then exhorting the age to come back to its senses, tradition early selected seven of the most notable.5 The spirit of Gnomic poetry was prominent in their reported sayings. They were fearful because of the common disregard of the conventions of the previous age, and because of the present excesses. Their watchword was “moderation,” and they were ever repeating “nothing too much.” By apothegm, riddle, epigram, and catchwords they tried to reform society. The names of all seven are not certain, and only four of them are known,—Thales, Solon, Pittacus, and Bias. Their ethical reflections are not concerned, as in Hesiod, with the home, the village, and the rules of convention, but with the individual’s general relation to society. Their knowledge of ethical matters is remarkable for their time. Some of their sayings are as follows:—

“No man is happy; all are full of trouble.” “Each thinks to do the right, yet no one knows what will be the result of his doings, and no one can escape his destiny.” “The people by their own injustice destroy the city, which the gods would have protected.” “As opposed to these evils the first necessity is law and order for the state, contentment and moderation for the individual.” “Not wealth, but moderation, is the highest good.” “Superfluity of possessions begets self-exaltation.”

The Three Periods of Greek Philosophy, 625–322 B. C. These are

1. The Cosmological Period, 625–480 B. C.

2. The Anthropological Period, 480–399 B. C.

3. The Systematic Period, 399–322 B. C.

1. The Cosmological Period begins with the birth of Greek philosophical reflection (625 B. C.) and has a nominal ending with the Persian wars (480 B. C.). This does not mean that the interest of the Greeks in cosmology stopped in 480 B. C., but that it was no longer their prominent interest. Cosmology is the study of the reality of the physical universe (the cosmos). The particular cosmological question occupying the minds of the Greeks in this period may be stated thus: What, amid the changes of the physical world, is permanent? This will be seen to be a philosophical question and not the same as a question in natural science. The theatre of philosophical activity was the colonies and not the motherland. Two important aspects of this period must be considered besides the philosophical,—the political situation and the religious mysteries.

2. The Anthropological Period begins in the motherland before the cosmological movement ended in the colonies. It starts with a great social impulse just after the victories of the Persian wars (480 B. C.) and ends with the death of Socrates (399 B. C.). Athens is the centre. This period includes the most productive intellectual epoch of Greece as a whole, although not its greatest philosophers. Socrates is the most striking personality in the period. The period is called anthropological, because its interest is in the study of man and not of the physical universe. The word anthropology means the study of man.

3. The Systematic Period begins with the death of Socrates (399 B. C.) and ends with the death of Aristotle (322 B. C.). Alexander the Great died 323 B. C. The period is called systematic because it contains the three great organizers or systematizers of Greek philosophy. These were Democritus, Plato, and Aristotle. The spread of Greek culture beyond its own limits through the conquests of Alexander is of great importance for the history of thought in the Hellenic-Roman Period, which follows this period.

CHAPTER II

THE COSMOLOGICAL PERIOD (625–480 B. C.): THE PHILOSOPHY OF NATURE
When we enter upon the one hundred and fifty years of philosophical beginnings of Greece, which are called the Cosmological Period, we find ourselves confronted with an extremely interesting social situation, which has been brought about partly by the political and geographical environment of the Greek, partly by his inherited genius. On the one hand, during this century and a half, the political troubles of the Greeks became increasingly aggravated by the growth of Persia on the east and of Carthage on the west. On the other hand, we find that the Greek religion took a sudden turn to mysticism, and by its side a slow but increasing interest in philosophical questions. All through this period Greek politics and Greek religion were a constant peril to Greek life. Greek philosophy proved to be its safety.

The Peril in the Greek Political Situation: Persia and Carthage. It must be remembered that the Greek cities never united into a nation. They were always fighting among themselves. We have already pointed out the civil disturbances between the oligarchy and the democracy throughout the land. These internal troubles continued to the end of Greek history. In this period there was added to these internal troubles a critical external situation which threatened the existence of Greece itself. The sixth century was a momentous one for Greece. In both the east and the west there arose mighty empires that threatened to wipe out its civilization. “The expansion of the Persian power (on the one hand) had suspended a stone of Tantalus over Hellas, and it seemed likely that Greek civilization might be submerged in an Oriental monarchy.”6 Cyrus had laid the foundation of Persia by taking Media in 550 B. C., Lydia in 546 B. C., Babylonia in 538 B. C.; Egypt was added by Cambyses in 528 B. C.; and Darius organized the great Persian possessions in his long reign from 528 to 486 B. C. On the west, Carthage was threatening the Greek cities of Sicily, and at the close of this period was acting in conjunction with Persia to obtain possession of the Mediterranean.

The Peril in the New Religion: The Mysteries and Pythagoras. Already in the seventh century B. C. the political society of Greece felt that it was under the wrath of the gods because of some unatoned guilt. “The earth is full of ills, of ills the sea,” sang the poet. Religious depression became universal. Dissatisfied with the old polytheism, especially as expressed in the theogony of Hesiod, the Greek in the sixth century B. C. began to interpret it according to his present need. Among the masses there appeared the craving for immortality and for personal knowledge of the supernatural. The desire to solve the mystery of life by a short road became universal. Men looked to rites to purify them from the guilt of the world and for gaining personal contact with the world of shades. This new religion became pan-Hellenic. It is called the Mysteries or the Orgia. By Mysteries is not meant societies founded on some occult intellectual belief, as the name might suggest. The Mysteries were based on cult (ceremony), and not on dogma. The special ceremonies were those of initiation and purification. They were supposed to purify the participant and put him in a new frame of mind. The soul would then be protected from the malicious spirits to which it was constantly exposed. The ceremonies are reported to have been attended sometimes by more than thirty thousand people. They consisted of processions, songs, dances, and dramatic spectacles. The most important of the Mysteries were the Orphic and the Eleusinian.

The Mysteries were the basis of the society of Pythagoreans. Pythagoras of Samos was a remarkable man, who went to Italy and settled at Crotona. His sect is of double importance to us because in later times it developed a philosophy on its mathematical and astronomical sides. Pythagoras and his immediate following must be distinguished from the later Pythagoreans. Pythagoras and the early Pythagoreans were not philosophers, but a sect like the Orphic society of Mysteries, yet the sect of Pythagoreans embraced much more in its scope. It tried to control the public and private life of its members and to evolve a common method of education.7 Pythagoras was an exiled aristocrat, and his sect was an aristocratic religious body in reaction against the democratic excesses. The only doctrine upon which Pythagoras placed any emphasis was that of immortality in the form of metempsychosis (transmigration of the soul from one bodily form into another). The sect was dispersed as a religious body about 450 B. C. The scattered members formed a school of philosophy at Thebes until about 350 B. C. Of these later philosophical Pythagoreans and their number theory, we shall speak in the proper place.

At the time of the dispersion of the Pythagoreans there existed no longer any peril from the new religion. The craze of the new religion was passing away. During the sixth century B. C. it was a great peril to the future intellectual life of Greece. Had it then gained a little more power it would probably have been admitted by the priesthood to the temples. In the exercise of such enormous sacerdotal power, the priests would have enslaved the Greek mind to superstition, and the priesthood in turn would have become an easy tool for tyrants. There would then have been no Socrates, no Plato, and no Aristotle. The Mysteries were a reaction toward asceticism as a religious salvation from the political peril, but they were, however, equally as great a peril to Greece. The medium course along the line of a rational philosophy, which the Greek genius actually took, proved its salvation.

Characteristics of the Cosmologists. There are certain characteristics of this early philosophy that should be noted at the beginning.

(1) All the Cosmologists were physical scientists, and with few exceptions their scientific views were noteworthy. Aristotle calls them physicists in distinction from their predecessors, whom he calls theologians.

(2) They often worked together in schools. Tradition has been common since Bacon that philosophy centres in individuals; but history shows that frequently the Greeks worked in corporate bodies. These philosophical scientists worked in schools; just as the Homeridæ developed the epic; the Dædalidæ, a group of the earliest artists, the secret of art; the Mysteries, religion. Philosophy now is in the cloister, and the intellect of the time speaks from its retreat from public life. While the Milesian school was undisturbed, owing to the long peace that Miletus enjoyed, we shall find that most of the philosophers of the Cosmological period were in retirement on account of political persecution.

We must remember that by “school” is not necessarily meant a group of pupils under the established instruction of a teacher. A school at this early period is a group of learned men at work on the same problems. Later on in history we shall find that one of the group more learned than the others stands in the position of teacher: for example, Plato in the Academy.

(3) All the Cosmologists were hylozoists. The etymological meaning of hylozoism is its true one—matter is alive. This is the fundamental characteristic of these pre-Socratics from Thales down to Anaxagoras, although some authorities contend that those from the time of Empedocles were not hylozoists. The meaning of hylozoism is simple enough, but the conception is a difficult one for the modern mind; for to-day we are accustomed to think of an impersonal nature under mechanical laws. To the Greek of the Cosmological period the substantial constitution of the universe is impersonal living matter; to us it is impersonal dead matter. Both these views are to be contrasted with the religious belief involved in Greek polytheism, in which the cosmos is conceived to be living personal spirits; this Homeric polytheism is again to be contrasted with the animism of the tribal period, in that it had organized into an æsthetic unity the early savage animism. These hylozoistic philosophers did not, however, give up the Homeric gods, but they treated their existence in a poetic way. They usually believed in their existence, but they always subordinated them to the one living world-ground.

(4) In common with all ancient peoples these Greek philosophers did not believe that the universe had unlimited space. On the contrary, they believed that it was limited and in the shape of an egg.

Table of Cosmologists. The Cosmologists are divided into two classes: (1) the earlier were monists—those who believe that the reality of the universe is a simple, undifferentiated unity; (2) the later were pluralists—those who believe that the reality of the universe consists of several elements equally real. They are enumerated as follows:—

The Monists

1. The Milesian school  Thales
Anaximander
Anaximenes  at Miletus.

2. Xenophanes at Colophon and Elea.

3. The Eleatic school  Parmenides
Zeno  at Elea.

4. Heracleitus at Ephesus.

The Pluralists

5. Empedocles at Agrigentum.

6. Anaxagoras at Clazomenæ.

7. The later Pythagoreans mainly at Thebes.

8. Leucippus at Abdera.

How the Philosophical Question Arose. The interests of these philosophical scientists sharply differentiate them from the preceding theogonists, like Hesiod and Epimenides, as well as from the masses who were absorbed in the religion of the Mysteries. They were, moreover, the men of Greece to whom the emotional excitement of a religious revival would not appeal as a refuge from the troubles of the time. Their own experience in the political troubles had made paramount the question as to the permanence of things. Nevertheless, its answer must be found in nature and in an intellectual way. When they turned to the traditional theogonies they found no answer to their question, for there was only a mythical chronicle of a succession of gods beginning with the unknown. The question of the Cosmologists was not, therefore, what was the original form of this changing world, but what is fundamental in the world always. The time factor is no longer important. Not the temporal prius but the real prius is what they seek. The idea of a temporal origin of things gives place to that of eternal being, and the question finally emerges, What is the real substance that constitutes the universe?


MAP SHOWING WHERE THE COSMOLOGISTS LIVED

(None of the Cosmologists, except the later Pythagoreans, lived in the motherland of Greece. Philosophical activity during this period took place in the colonies. The map shows the cities which were the centres of philosophy and the homes of the philosophers as indicated.)

The Greek Monistic Philosophies. Turning back to our classification on page 20, we see that the earliest Greek philosophers emphasized the monistic tendency, which had become so prominent in Greek religion. This group of monists was composed of the Milesians, Xenophanes, the Eleatic School, and Heracleitus. The course of reasoning of these early thinkers is naïvely simple, and like all naïve thought, it contains such contradictions that the modern reader is likely to become impatient with it. The value of the study of the philosophy of these early Greeks is entirely historical. Its historical value, however, is very great, for it is a revelation of the culture of the Greece of that time, it throws light on many of the teachings of Plato and Aristotle, and most of all it contains the germs of modern metaphysical problems. These first Greek philosophers raised the question, What is the constitution of the substance of the universe? Their answers are naïve solutions to the historical metaphysical “riddle.”

The Milesians, who form the earliest philosophical school in European history, seem to have assumed two facts as self-evident about the substance of the universe: (1) There is a single cosmic substance identical with itself, which is the basis of all the changes in nature; (2) Moving matter is the same as life. The Milesians were quite unconscious that these two assumptions were contradictory, but the contradiction impressed their successors—Xenophanes, Heracleitus, and the Eleatics; and divided them in their development of philosophy. Matter which keeps identical with itself is the Unchanging8 and is brought into opposition with Life, the Changing, or matter which moves. The question for Xenophanes, Heracleitus, and the Eleatics—and indeed for all future philosophy—was: How can the changing processes of life be explained by an unchanging substance?

Xenophanes, who was more of a religious reformer than a philosopher, was so absorbed in the first of these assumptions that he developed it for his purpose in his practical social reformation to the entire neglect of the second assumption. The Eleatics, however, to whose city Xenophanes had come, could not leave his doctrine in its one-sided and undeveloped form. They accepted his teaching of the divine Unchangingness of the universe, but this compelled these profounder thinkers to offer some explanation of the natural processes of change. Change to them cannot really exist. Heracleitus, on the other hand, was impressed with the aspect of life that is expressed in the second assumption of the Milesians—living matter is moving matter. He therefore maintained in direct opposition to the Eleatics, that the changing, living processes of nature alone are real. The two contradictory assumptions that lay so mutually indifferent in the Milesian doctrine thus became the basis of a sharp metaphysical controversy between Heracleitus and the Eleatics. The substance of the world is permanent, change is an illusion, said the Eleatics. The substance of the world changes, permanence is an illusion, said Heracleitus. Either all things are permanent or all things change. These early philosophers had no wealth of empirical knowledge nor of psychological reflection upon which to draw, and it is not strange that they should take extreme positions and be blind to their practical consequences.

1. The Milesian School. Of all the Greek cities in the sixth century B. C. Miletus was the wealthiest and most prosperous. It was one of the Ionian colonies and was situated on the coast of Asia Minor, and it alone was able to preserve its autonomy as neighbor of the warring eastern empires. Not until the battle of Lade was it captured and destroyed (494 B. C.). From two generations of philosophers history has preserved three names,—Thales, Anaximander, and Anaximenes. The school is called indifferently the Milesian or the Ionic school. The proximity of Miletus to Ephesus, Colophon, and Clazomenæ (as a glance at the map will show) explains the influence of the Milesian school upon the doctrines of Heracleitus, Xenophanes, and Anaxagoras. Undoubtedly the contact of the Milesians with the Orient and Egypt had brought to them knowledge and correct scientific observations of many sorts, especially astronomical.

Thales (b. 640 B. C.) was a member of one of the leading families of Miletus, and lived during the flourishing period of the city under the tyranny of Thrasybulus. He is counted among the seven Wise Men, and belonged to the rich commercial class. He probably engaged in commerce and traveled in Egypt. He was versed in the current learning, predicted an eclipse, and was acute in mathematics and physics. Probably he never committed anything to writing. Aristotle’s comments are the only data about him.

Anaximander (611–545 B. C.?) was an astronomer and geographer; he made an astronomical globe, a sundial, and a geographical map. He was an intimate disciple of Thales and wrote Concerning Nature, which is referred to as the first Greek philosophical treatise. Nothing is known of his life.

Anaximenes (560–500 B. C.?) was the disciple of Anaximander. One sentence is preserved of his writings.9

The Milesian Philosophy. The Milesians lived upon the seacoast, and the changes of the sea and air must have deeply impressed them. They had an intellectual curiosity to find the cosmic matter which remained identical with itself and at the same time moved. (See p. 22.) They were not, therefore, interested to discover the chemical composition of matter, but to find what matter was most moving and therefore most alive. Thales said that it was water; Anaximenes, air; and Anaximander, the Apeiron, or the Unlimited. Their respective choices were determined by what seemed to possess the most mobility and the greatest inner vitality. Thales thought water possessed this quality. Water is always moving. Thales saw it moving. It therefore has life in itself. Anaximander felt that no object in our perceptual experience would fully explain the ceaseless mobility of nature, and he called it the Unlimited or the Indeterminate—the Apeiron. It is a mixture in which all qualities are lost. The changes in nature are endless, and therefore the single cosmic substance, from which they come, must be endless as well, for “from whatever source things come, in that they have their end.” We learn that this is just the reason for Anaximenes choosing the air for the single underlying cosmic substance. The air is the most changeable thing and is Unlimited.9

Both Thales and Anaximenes still held to the traditional polytheism of the Greek Epic. Anaximander rises above them in this respect. This conception of the Unlimited, to which his scientific search led him, is regarded by him as Deity. He calls it “the divine” (τὸ θεῖον); although he speaks of it in the neuter gender it is, nevertheless, the first European philosophical conception of God. It is the first attempt to conceive of God as purely physical and yet without any mythical dress. In Anaximander the Milesian monism has a religious aspect.

2. Xenophanes, the Religious Philosopher (570 B. C.). The scientific monism of Anaximander was after all only expressive of that religious dissatisfaction, first voiced by the Wise Men, against the Hesiod cosmogony and the immorality of the Homeric myths. Now for the first time a positive conflict between religion and philosophy arose through Xenophanes, the rhapsodist of Colophon. Colophon, an Ionian city near Miletus, was noted for its obscene and cruel religious practices, and when his native city capitulated to the Persians, Xenophanes charged its feebleness to its immoral religion. He went to Magna Græcia, and, disguised as a musician, he wandered about for sixty-seven years through its length and breadth declaiming in song against the anthropomorphism, the mystic ecstasies, and the general social practices of the Greeks. He finally settled in Elea, southern Italy (see map), and on this account he is sometimes called the founder of the Eleatic school.

Xenophanes’ influence upon the thought of Greece was threefold: (1) He preached the Milesian philosophical monism to the people of Greece in the form of a religious monism; (2) He carried this doctrine from eastern Greece (Asia Minor) to Western Greece (Magna Græcia); (3) He was the connecting link between the Milesian and the following Eleatic school.

The Philosophy of Xenophanes. Based on one of the Milesian assumptions, viz., a single cosmic substance remains identical with itself in nature, Xenophanes felt that he had a right to set down two principles about nature.

1. The single primordial substance below the changes of nature is God. The reality below nature which Thales conceived to be water, Anaximander to be unlimited substance without a name, Anaximenes to be air, was said by Xenophanes to be God. The important point here is that Xenophanes has not given the Greeks a spiritualistic conception of God; but that he has positively stated that the substance of the universe is an object of religious devotion. He calls the cosmic substance God instead of calling it water, Apeiron, or air. It is a material thing, and yet it is an object of reverence. He ascribes to this God a spherical form, and yet also mental power of omniscience. God is “one and all” ἓν καὶ πᾶν, and yet he is “one god, the greatest among gods and men, neither in form and thought like unto mortals.” The positive conception of God hangs confused in the mind of Xenophanes. He is scarcely a monotheist, nor yet a pantheist. He is a hylozoist, who conceives the underlying cosmic substance to be an object of religious reverence.

2. The single cosmic substance below the changes of nature is unchangeable. To the Milesians the more moving is matter, the more alive is it. Life and activity are the same thing. To Xenophanes this is not the case, but, on the contrary, the opposite is true. He conceives God to be a definite sphere that is unchangeable and homogeneous. The material substance, God, always remains the same. “He has no need of going about, now hither, now thither, in order to carry out his wishes; but he governs all men without toil.” Xenophanes thus becomes the forerunner of the Eleatic school.

3. Heracleitus, “the Misanthropist” and “the Obscure” (about 563–470 B. C.). Heracleitus was a native of Ephesus, belonged to the aristocracy, and suffered at the hands of the democracy. He wrote a treatise that was difficult to understand even by the ancients, some fragments of which are preserved. He was called the “weeping philosopher” because of his misanthropy, and also the “dark philosopher” because of the obscurity of his writings. He was a theorist rather than a physicist, and his doctrines foreshadow our modern physical theories. His name is coupled with that of Parmenides in the deep impression he made upon Greek thought. From his complacent and gloomy retirement he looked forth upon the world around him with profound contempt, as did the Stoics after him.

a. Heracleitus’ Doctrine of Absolute and Universal Change. The wonder which the Ionians felt, that nature phenomena change into one another, found its liveliest expression in Heracleitus. He not only found that mutability was the primal aspect of nature phenomena, but he also pointed out that human experiences also had their rapid and complete transitions. Especially was he fond of citing the changes of opposites into each other. But what shows his development over the early Milesian doctrine was his isolation of the aspect of change from the Milesian conception of the cosmic matter, thereby affirming that abiding permanence is an illusion. It is one thing to affirm that reality is essentially change; it is another to universalize change by affirming that the permanent has no existence. The Milesian doctrine was too naïve to go as far as that. Heracleitus piles up figures of speech to show that there is no permanence whatever. All existing things are only “becoming”-things, passing-away things. Being is always becoming, about-to-be. The only unchanging thing is change. “You cannot step into the same rivers, for fresh waters are ever flowing in upon you.” “God is day and night, winter and summer, war and peace, satiety and hunger.” “All things flow” (πάντα ῥεῖ). What abides and deserves the name of Deity is not thing, but motion—Becoming.

b. Fire is the Cosmic Substance. Here we come to a difficulty in explaining the doctrine of Heracleitus because of the confusion in his own mind. He evidently goes a long way toward conceiving the cosmic substance as an abstraction—as the process of change. But he could not be wholly abstract. He stops and tells us that the cosmic substance is fire, and he probably means by fire just the same sort of thing as Anaximenes meant by air. Fire is the cosmic substance. It is the essence of all material things because it is the most mobile. But, after all, the fire of which Heracleitus is thinking is not a localized thing, like the fire on the hearth. For the hearth fire in a sense is ever identical with itself. The fire which Heracleitus means is ever darting, ever transforming material. To sum up: Heracleitus does not mean by fire an abstraction like the law of change; he does not mean, on the other hand, a material ever remaining like itself: he does mean a material, but a transforming material.

c. The Definite Changes of Fire. Heracleitus makes some acute observations about the characteristics of the changing fire. The Milesians had been content to observe atmospheric changes and to name condensation and rarefaction as the forms of cosmic change. Heracleitus goes farther and emphasizes definite relations of change. The succession of changes always remains the same. Their definite relation is the only permanence in the world, and Heracleitus’ conception foreshadows the modern conception of the uniformity of the law of nature. The changes are (1) fateful, (2) rational, and (3) just. They show that the world is a destiny, a reason, and a justice. This identification of ethical and logical qualities with the physical betrays the undeveloped condition of the thought of Heracleitus.

In general, there are two characteristics to be noted with reference to Heracleitus’ conception of a definite succession of changes: (1) the changes are always a harmony of opposites; (2) and the changes are in a closed circuit. The process of change is not a flow in one direction like a river over its bed, but it is a movement in two opposite directions. By change Heracleitus means not only a passing into something else but a passing into the opposite. Everything is the union of opposites, and everything is the transition point of opposites about to separate. The flux of things is thus poetically conceived as a war of things, and this war is “the father of all things.” This unity of opposites has an equilibrium that illudes us into thinking it is permanent. The universe is an invisible harmony, divided into itself and again united. Investigate life and there are antitheses everywhere. War is life. The second general characteristic of the succession of changes is their closed circuit. Fire changes into all things, and all things are changing back into fire. These two movements are called the “Upward Way” and the “Downward Way.” Downward, fire changes through air and water into earth. Upward, earth changes back to water, air, and fire. With every change, there is counter-change, action is accompanied by a reaction. “Men do not know how that which is drawn in opposite directions harmonizes with itself. The harmonious structure of the world depends upon opposite tension, like that of the bow and the lyre.”

d. The Practical Philosophy of Heracleitus. Heracleitus was more of a metaphysician than a physicist, and his chief concern was in the formation and the practical application of his theory of change. He looked upon man as a bit of cosmic fire struck off and imprisoned in a body of earth, water, and air. After death this fiery soul is released and absorbed in the cosmic fire. In his present state man has a divided existence: the life of the soul, or the fire of the reason; and the life of the senses of the imprisoning body. The reason retires from the illusions of sense, and sees in its aristocratic isolation how illusory the sensations are. For the senses tell us that their objects are permanent, while the reason sees through this deception to the changingness of the world. Thus the beginning is made by Heracleitus in distinguishing the reflections of the reason from sensations. Truth is for the first time systematically set over against opinion. The reasonable Wise Man resigns himself to whatever happens because he knows that it is fateful, wise, and just. The Wise Man recognizes that all is change, and he is happy because he sees providence in the vicissitudes of his own life. Thus in the aristocratic hate, which Heracleitus holds against democracies, he makes conformity to law the only way to happiness. The reason of Wise Men, and not the senses of the multitude, must be the true guide of society.

Heracleitus was a profound observer and theorist. His physical theory foreshadowed the modern theories of natural law and of relativity; his practical theories reappear in the psychology of Protagoras and the ethics of the Stoics.

4. The Eleatic School. The town of Elea to which Xenophanes came in the course of his wanderings had been recently settled by the Ionian refugees from Phocæa, a great maritime city in Asia Minor, which had been conquered by the Persians (543 B. C.). Elea is now Castellamare on the west coast of Italy. It is celebrated as the birthplace of Parmenides and Zeno, who founded the so-called Eleatic school.

a. Parmenides (b. 515 B. C.).

Parmenides wrote about 470 B. C. He is represented as a serious and influential man, with a high moral character. He exercised strong influence upon such philosophers as Plato and Democritus, and was a political power in the city of Elea, of which he was a native. He was not a stranger to the Pythagoreans. The large fragment of his poem is the most ancient monument extant of metaphysical speculation among the Greeks.

Parmenides takes the doctrine of Xenophanes with great seriousness, and what Xenophanes says about the Godhead, Parmenides says about all things. Xenophanes’ religious weapon of an unchanging cosmic substance becomes in the hands of Parmenides an academic doctrine of science and the basis of logical controversy. Parmenides used the conception of Xenophanes in his great didactic poem, The Way of Truth and the Way of Opinion, with the evident purpose of refuting the theory of Heracleitus. The fragment of the poem reveals the driest abstractions dressed in rich poetry. As a thinker Parmenides is the most important in this period. Zeno was the friend and pupil of Parmenides.

(1) The Cosmic Substance is Being. The first assumption in the Milesian doctrine—that there is a single matter that ever remains identical with itself—was so self-evident to Parmenides that he does not attempt to prove it. He assumes it, as if it were cogent to everybody. However, he explains what he means by Being in a negative statement: Not-Being, or what is not, cannot be thought. Being and thought are so correlated that they are the same. Thinking always has Being as its content, and there is no Being that is not thought. Being ＝ Thought. This explanation of Parmenides’ identification of thought and Being may be put in this logical form:—

All thinking refers to something thought, and therefore has Being for its content;

Thinking that refers to nothing, and is therefore contentless, cannot be;

Therefore, not-Being cannot be thought, much less can it be.

These propositions look very abstract, and make us believe that we are to plunge immediately into a kind of German idealism. But Parmenides leaves us in no doubt that he is one of the hylozoists of his time. Being is indeed thought, but Being is also matter. We may therefore amend our equation to Being ＝ Thought ＝ Matter. Being is what fills space, and all Being has this and only this property. All Being is therefore exactly alike, and there is only one, single Being. There are no distinctions in Being. By not-Being Parmenides means empty space or that which is not material. So that Parmenides’ assumption of Being as the cosmic substance means this: all that exists, including thought, fills space; and all that does not exist does not fill space.

Being, the cosmic substance, is one, eternal, imperishable, homogeneous, unchangeable, and material. When men see the world as it really is, when they see its cosmic substance, they see it to be one continuous material block. The world is not made up of parts with intervals of nothing between them, but it is a solid, homogeneous whole. The cosmic Being is a timeless, spaceless Being with no distinctions. The form of Being is spherical. It is cosmic-body and cosmic-thought. This is the assumption of Parmenides, which is so self-evident and so cogent to him that he does not attempt to prove but only to explain it.

(2) Other Things than the Cosmic Substance (Being) have no Real Existence. If Being is space that is filled, not-Being is empty space. However, empty space has no existence. But the existence of a plural number of things depends upon the existence of empty spaces between them. Furthermore, the motion of things and the change of things depend upon the existence of empty spaces in which they can move and change. Since empty space is not-Being and has no existence, the plurality of things and the motion and change of things have also no existence. They are illusions. The nature-world, with its richness of qualities and variety of motions, before the logic of Parmenides “folds up its tents like the Arabs and silently steals away.”

This logical drawing out of one of the aspects of the Milesian conception of the cosmic matter has a curious result. The Milesians and Xenophanes sought to explain by the cosmic substance the many nature changes. But when in the hands of Parmenides the cosmic substance is all of reality, then there is no reality to the changes. Consequently the concept formed for the explanation of change has so developed as to deny the existence of change. The cosmic substance excludes all origination and decay, all space and time differences, all divisibility, diversity, and movement. There is only one real, all else is illusion.

But what can we say of the varied world of nature as it appears to us? Do we see, hear, and touch many things and motions? In Part II of his poem he raises the question, Suppose man takes the world of change as real how must he explain it? He answers by using the explanation of Heracleitus. But these changes of eye and ear belong to the world of sense, and Parmenides is talking, in Part I of his poem, about the real world or that world known to thought. Parmenides insists as strongly as did Heracleitus that the reason and not the sense shall be our guide to what is real. Yet he arrives at exactly the opposite conclusion from Heracleitus as to what the reason sees as real. The senses show us only the many and the changing. The reason shows us nothing of the sort, but only permanence and unchangingness.

b. Zeno (b. 490–430 B. C.).

Zeno was born in Elea. He was contemporary with those who tried to reconcile the two sides of the metaphysical controversy,—Empedocles, Anaxagoras, and the Atomists. He wrote in prose in the form of question and answer. This is the beginning of the dialogue literature, which in the time of the Sophists, Socrates and Plato, was richly developed and became known as dialectic. On the Greek stage during the time of Pericles it came forth in dramatic form through Æschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides.

The Philosophy of Zeno. Zeno was the active controversialist of the school of Elea, and he was not a constructive philosopher. He offered no contribution to advance the thought of Parmenides. He appeared rather as the master of logical argument in defense of his predecessor, by tearing to pieces the arguments of his opponents. The opponents that Zeno is attacking are the Atomists of Abdera, who were his contemporaries, rather than Heracleitus. His contribution was negative and formal, but it was nevertheless effective and searching. His arguments and paradoxes will, however, lose their cogency unless it be kept in mind that he is trying to show how absurd magnitude, multiplicity, and change would be in discontinuous space such as the Atomists describe. While his paradoxes have been attacked again and again, they still have effectiveness against atomic theories.

His arguments are against magnitude, multiplicity, and motion. There can be no magnitude, because a thing would then be both infinitely small and infinitely great. There can be no multiplicity of things, since they would be both limited and unlimited in number. There can be no motion, because (1) it is impossible to go through a fixed space; (2) it is impossible to go though a space that has movable limits; and (3) because of the relativity of motion. The dilemmas which he proposed of Achilles and the tortoise, the flying arrow at rest, and the bushel of corn are classic.10

The Results of the Conflict between Heracleitus and Parmenides. 1. One important result of this final conflict between the inconsistent motives in the Milesian teaching was that reason was contrasted with sense, reflection with experience. The more fully the philosophers developed their doctrines, the more their doctrines became contrasted with the opinions of unreflecting people. At first the contrast appeared in this naïve form: that what they thought was right, and what others thought must be wrong, if others differed from them. Then the contrast came in this form: that reflection gives the true and sensations the false. Thus reflection came to have such conclusiveness that it gained independence. The philosopher began to feel the supremacy of reason, to assert that he has truth, to call unreasoned belief by the opprobrious name of “opinion.” This is curiously illustrated in the case of Heracleitus and Parmenides. Their opposing conceptions of the cosmic substance are claimed to be the result of reason, while each calls the other’s theory “opinion.”

2. Another result was that in the Greek thought the monistic theory was found to be useless in the study of nature. These early monistic views led up as necessary steps to pluralism, but they were not in themselves serviceable. The imperfection in the Milesian teaching appeared in the impassable gulf between Heracleitus and Parmenides. It now remained for the last Cosmologists to see if, on the basis of pluralism, they could not reconcile the preceding views and at the same time obtain a satisfactory metaphysics of nature.

3. The third result of the controversy between the Eleatics and Heracleitus was that the peril from the Orphic Mysteries was averted,—not immediately, nor in a year’s time, but after many years. Philosophy became established. The Greek reason now had an object of interest, in a sharp scientific issue. Mystery was not crushed, but subdued. The mental life of the future Greek had a topic for its reflection which supplanted, when the time came, its emotional interest in the supernatural.

CHAPTER III

PLURALISM
Efforts toward Reconciliation. The theories of Heracleitus and Parmenides were in part fantastic and in part abstract. They were the two motives of the Milesian school that had been developed so far as to reveal their inherent inconsistencies.

Physical theories now began to spring up which modified the metaphysical theories; and these produced results which while not so logical, were less distant from the facts of life. The Eleatics had so conceived Being as to deny the existence of changing phenomena perceived in the world of nature. On the other hand, Heracleitus had so emphasized the universality of change that there was little reality left in the particular changes. The later Heracleitans were Heracleitus gone mad. “We not only cannot step into the same river twice, but we cannot do it once.” All the preceding philosophers had been monists. The time had therefore come for thinkers to abandon monism if thought were to have any usefulness. Monism, whether in the form of Heracleitus’ doctrine of universal change or of Parmenides’ doctrine of universal permanence, had merely set aside the problem about the Many. Of course, a more satisfactory solution of this problem could come only when human life had become riper and had more experiences upon which to draw. It was natural for the Greek philosopher to look now to pluralism for his solution, when he turned away from monism. At the outset pluralism tried to reconcile the two extremes to which the Milesian motifs had gone. Its later development in the doctrine of Protagoras was as extreme as that of the monists.

The New Conception of Change of the Pluralists. Facing the fact that change has to be explained and cannot be denied, change is conceived by the pluralists to be not a transformation but a transposition. It is an alteration in position of the parts of a mass. Birth, growth, death, are only such changes of transposition. Empedocles, to whom the origin of the doctrine is attributed, says, “There is no coming into Being of aught that perishes, nor any end for it in baneful death, but only a mingling and a separation of what has been mingled. Just as when painters are elaborating temple offerings,—they, when they have taken the pigments of many colors in their hands, mix them in a harmony,—so let not the error prevail in thy mind that there is any other source of all the perishable creatures that appear in countless numbers.” All origination, then, is a new combination, and every destruction only a separation of the original parts. The Pluralists thus make Heracleitus’ conception useful in the explanation of nature.

The New Conception of the Unchanging of the Pluralists—The Element. But there must be a permanence in order that there be change. This can only be conceived by assuming that there are many original units that in themselves do not change. The mass of the world is ever the same; there is no new creation. Being consists in many elements, and not in a single block. So to Empedocles in particular is accredited the priority of forming the conception of the element, which has occupied an important place in science. The element is conceived by the Pluralists as unoriginated, imperishable, and unchanging. It has all the qualities that Parmenides attributed to his single Being, only the elements may change their place and suffer mechanical division. The Pluralists thus make the Eleatic conception useful in the explanation of nature.

The Introduction of the Conception of the Efficient Cause. The Eleatics had detached the quality of motion from Being. The Pluralists, in reintroducing it, were obliged to make it a separate force in order to get movement into their universe. The elements are changeless. How can they move? They cannot move themselves. They are moved from without. Here in Empedocles is made a differentiation of great importance—the concept of the moving or efficient cause. However, this does not appear in this early time in conceptual but in mythical-poetic and undefined form. With this differentiated efficient cause, can Pluralism be considered to be hylozoism? Authorities differ. Certainly this new concept shows the beginning of the breaking up of hylozoism and the beginning of the formation of a mechanistic conception of the universe. But probably the Pluralists were as much hylozoists as their predecessors, the monists. Their efficient causes are material like the elements, and they are poetically and indefinitely described. They are in every case conceived as the material which has a lively or an originating motion. We must keep in mind that all the Cosmologists except the Eleatics believed movement to be life.

Summary of Similarities and Differences in the Theories of the Reconcilers.

The general common characteristics of the theories of the Reconcilers:—

1. A plurality of the elements.

2. An efficient cause which explains the shifting of the elements in causing the origin, growth, and decay of the world of nature.

The general differences between the theories of the Reconcilers:—

1. In the number and quality of the elements.

2. In the number and quality of the causes.

The Pluralistic Philosophers: Empedocles, Anaxagoras, Leucippus, and the Later Pythagoreans. With the Pluralists we pass completely out of the sixth century B. C. The lives of the hylozoistic Pluralists span the fifth century, and cosmological interest extends later. Even the Eleatic Zeno lived from 490 to 430 B. C. Empedocles lived from 490 to 430 B. C., Anaxagoras from 500 to 425 B. C., and the Pythagoreans and Leucippus later. When the cosmological movement was still virile in the Grecian colonies, and even before it had reached its systematic form in Democritus of Abdera, the anthropological movement had begun in the motherland, in Athens. The Persian Wars are the dividing line between the two periods, but only because they denote the beginning of the new movement in Athens, not the end of the old movement in Asia Minor and Magna Græcia. Contemporaneous with the Pluralists was the brilliant Age of Pericles, when the Sophists were carrying education to the people and Socrates was teaching in the Athenian market-place. By the middle of the fifth century B. C. there was the liveliest interchange of scientific ideas throughout Greek society, and the contemporaneousness of the Pluralists with one another and with the Athenian philosophers shows this in many similarities in their doctrines and in many polemical references. There are four schools of Reconcilers, of which Empedocles, Anaxagoras, Leucippus, and the later Pythagoreans are the representatives.

Empedocles11 (490 to 430 B. C.) was the first Dorian philosopher, a partisan of the democracy, and belonged to a rich family of Agrigentum. He became a distinguished statesman, but he later fell from popular favor. Then, in the garb of a magician, he traveled as physician and priest through Magna Græcia. His political affiliations would prevent his direct connection with the Pythagoreans, but he showed that the Pythagoreans influenced him, and his career is an imitation of that of Pythagoras. He was acquainted with the theory of Heracleitus, and he knew Parmenides personally. He was one of the first rhetoricians, and was probably connected with a large literary circle. He is the first and most imperfect representative of the reconciliation. The story of his suicide by leaping into Mt. Ætna is supposed to be a myth.

Anaxagoras (500–425 B. C.), a man of wealthy antecedents, was much esteemed, was born in Clazomenæ in a circle rich in Ionian culture, but was isolated from practical life. He declared the heaven to be his fatherland and the study of the heavenly bodies to be his life’s task. He went to Athens about 450 B. C., where he formed one of a circle of notable men of culture. He lived in Athens under the patronage of Pericles, but in 434 B. C. he was expelled. In Athens he was intimate with such men as Euripides, Thucydides, and Protagoras. He represents the first appearance of philosophy in Athens.

The life of Leucippus is almost unknown. He was probably born in Miletus, visited Elea, and settled in Abdera.

The Later Pythagoreans. After the Pythagoreans as a religious and political body had been defeated at Crotona, they lost their prestige and were scattered to the four winds. They were beaten in the battle of Crotona (510 B. C.) and dispersed about 450 B. C. Pythagoras died 504 B. C. His scattered followers, these later Pythagoreans, formed a school of philosophy which had its centre at Thebes. Destroyed as a religious body the members lost their superstitions and turned their attention to philosophy, astronomy, mathematics, medicine, and physics. As mathematicians and as astronomers they are the most notable among the ancients. Philolaus is the probable originator of their philosophy of numbers. This school disappeared about 350 B. C. Pythagoreanism reappeared later under the name of neo-Pythagoreanism.

The Philosophy of Empedocles. Empedocles conceived the number of elements to be four,—earth, air, fire, and water,—an arbitrary enumeration, which nevertheless persisted in the popular imagination throughout the Middle Ages. He chose this number of elements because they included all the elements in his predecessors’ theories. By the transposition and new arrangement of these elements he could account for the variety of the world. The efficient causes that make these different separations and mixtures are Love and Hate, two mythical and sensuous entities. Love is the cause of the union of things, Hate of their separation.

This is the general metaphysical theory that Empedocles uses to explain the physical world and especially physiological phenomena; and he is probably best known as the author of the aphorism, “Like attracts Like.” For example, he conceives the physical world as continuously repeating itself through four cosmic stages, each centuries long. The world moves therefore in cyclical evolution, in which Love is bringing like elements together only to be followed by stages of the separation of the like elements by Hate,—an endless cosmic procession.

But Empedocles’ interest in cosmology was only a part of his dominating interest in the organic world. He held some interesting evolution theories. His special interest in human physiology led him to frame the first theory of perception. Man is composed of the four elements, and he can know the universe around himself because Like in him attracts Like in the external world. The earth forms our solid parts, water the liquid parts, air is the vital breath, and fire is the soul. The blood contains the four elements, and is therefore the real carrier of life. If we perceive anything, it is because we have qualities similar to that thing. The element in us attracts the like element outside. He fancifully explained how parts of each element pressed upon parts of like elements—earth upon earth, air upon air; and how these clung together until sundered by Hate. The senses have only a partial number of elements, while the reason has them all; therefore sense knowledge is partial when compared with rational knowledge.

The Philosophy of Anaxagoras. The pluralistic conception of the nature-substance, that was originated by Empedocles in this crude form, got a more complete character in the hands of Anaxagoras. For Anaxagoras took exception to the arbitrary assumption of Empedocles that the elements were only four in number. How could this world of infinite variety be derived from only four elements? We must postulate as many elements as there are qualities, if by merely shuffling them—by various combinings and separatings of them—their infinite number is to be explained. There are a plural number of elements qualitatively distinct. Every perceptual thing is composed of these heterogeneous parts or qualities or elements. But how do you know an element when you find one? Always by the fact that when you divide it, its parts are homogeneous. The elements are, therefore, those substances that divide into parts that are like one another; while the perceptual objects of nature can be divided into parts that are unlike one another. They are called “seeds” by Anaxagoras, and designated as “homoiomeriai” by Aristotle and later philosophy. This was a time, it must be remembered, when chemical analysis had not developed, and when mechanical division and change of temperature were the only means of investigation. Form, color, and taste were the characteristics that differentiated elements. So Anaxagoras was content to name as elements such things as bones, muscles, flesh, marrow, metals, etc. The countless elements or qualities are present in a finely divided state throughout the universe. Every perceptual object has present in it all elements, even opposite elements. It is, however, known and named by the element that prevails in it at any particular instant. For example, fire contains an element of cold but the fire element prevails. Opposites attract, and the qualitative change in a thing consists in the predominance of some other quality already present in it.

For the efficient cause of the combining and separating of the elements Anaxagoras selected one of the elements. He called it the Nous, the Greek word for mind or reason. Many historians have therefore concluded that Anaxagoras is the author of an idealistic philosophy. Aristotle says of Anaxagoras that he “stood out like a sober man among the random talkers that had preceded him.” But both Plato12 and Aristotle are disappointed with the way in which Anaxagoras handles the conception of Nous and, as a matter of fact, the Nous, as Anaxagoras uses it, is not less hylozoistic than the Love and Hate of Empedocles. In the Nous Anaxagoras threw out a thought that was too big for him. Its introduction, however, marks the breaking up of pre-Socratic hylozoism. Anaxagoras wrote down the word, Nous, from which comes the contrast with matter. He stripped the mythical dress from the efficient cause of Empedocles and substituted Nous, because he wished to emphasize the unity of the cosmic process. The Nous is one of the elements; it is “thought-stuff,” it is a corporeal substance. It differs from all the other elements in that it is the finest, the most mobile, and has the power of self-motion. If among the early schools motion is life, here we find the new conception of self-motion as most alive. Instead of a departure from hylozoism, this is a rehabilitation of hylozoism in more perfect form. The Nous is the cause of the harmony and order of the cosmos.

The Philosophy of the Atomists—Leucippus and the School at Abdera. Only circumstantial evidence is left to testify to the early beginnings of the school of atomists at Abdera. About 450 B. C., owing to the rise of Athens and the great victory of Cimon over the Persians, the Ionian civilization on the coasts of Asia Minor had a new lease of life, and there was a renewal of scientific activity in the cities. The influence of the Milesians appeared and Anaxagoras’ doctrine, which had been widely disseminated, began to have great vigor. Among the philosophers of this section was one about whom we know very little, except that his name was Leucippus and that he was the father of atomism. Miletus was probably his native place, and after visiting Elea he settled in Abdera in Thrace. We know that the polemic of Zeno was directed against contemporary atomism; and we know the theories of the pupils of Leucippus, of Protagoras, and of Democritus, in whom the doctrine of atomism culminated. Probably the theory of Leucippus was that the cosmic substance is composed of an infinite number of elements quantitatively distinct, in opposition to Empedocles’ theory of a fourfold division as well as against Anaxagoras’ theory of an infinite number of qualities. Atomism in this early form represents one of the ways that Greek thought took in reconciling the conflicting claims of Heracleitus and Parmenides. The doctrine of atomism will be presented fully in its greatest representative, Democritus.

The Later Pythagoreans. Had the Pythagorean band remained what Pythagoras had designed it, had it not had its political aspirations crushed at the battle of Crotona and the members scattered far and wide, it would probably have for the historian of to-day only the importance of a local band of political and religious reformers. The adversity at Crotona was, however, a blessing in disguise for the Pythagoreans and for Greece, for it turned the Pythagoreans from religious politics to science and metaphysics. In the first place, they became the authors of an important metaphysical theory. This was the theory of numbers, which influenced Plato, became the foundation of a vigorous school in Alexandria in the Hellenic-Roman Period, flourished during the Middle Ages, and united with the doctrines of the Jews in what is called the Cabala. To-day the magic numbers persist in our superstitions. In the second place, the Pythagoreans turned to science,—especially to mathematics and astronomy,—and in these two branches became very celebrated in ancient times. Their astronomical theory had a most extraordinary history. With modifications it was preserved by Plato and Aristotle, and later became the basis of the Ptolemaic system of astronomy. This system was the scientifically accepted system for fifteen hundred years, when it was supplanted by the Newtonian theory. It is a most singular fact that the cosmological background of the Epics of Dante and Milton is the astronomical system of the Pythagoreans as expressed in the Ptolemaic system.

The Pythagoreans, be it remarked, were “Reconcilers,” but they were more. The original ethical motive of Pythagoras influenced them as scientists. They did not attempt to formulate a science of ethics, but the ethical motive was always back of their mathematics and astronomy.

1. The Pythagorean Conception of Being. The Pythagorean conception of reality is the most advanced of any cosmological theory in this period. The Pythagoreans were hylozoists, but they come the nearest to transcending the hylozoism of their time. The influence of the later Pythagoreans, whom Plato met in Italy, upon Plato shows that Pythagorean philosophy forms a link between the cosmology of the colonies and the following comprehensive systems of thought.

The important position in the evolution of Greek thought occupied by the Pythagoreans depends upon their conception of that Being that abides amid all change. Pythagoreanism is usually spoken of as “the number theory.” This is, however, only a suggestion of its import. For numbers are not to the Pythagoreans what the different kinds of cosmic matter were to the early monists, or what the several elements were to the pluralists,—Empedocles, Anaxagoras, and the atomists. Neither are they abstractions merely, such as we use in scientific reckoning. The Pyth…"
