Zeal





Christ an example of.

Psalm 69:9 For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.

John 2:17 And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.

Godly sorrow leads to.

2 Corinthians 7:10-11 For godly sorrow worketh repentance to Salvation not to be repented of: but the sorrow of the world worketh Death. 11 For behold this selfsame thing, that ye sorrowed after a godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you, yea, what clearing of yourselves, yea, what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement desire, yea, what zeal, yea, what revenge! In all things ye have approved yourselves to be clear in this matter.

Of Saints, ardent.

Psalm 119:139 My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words.

Provokes others to do good.

2 Corinthians 9:2 For I know the forwardness of your mind, for which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that Achaia was ready a year ago; and your zeal hath provoked very many.

SHOULD BE EXHIBITED

In spirit.

Romans 12:11 Not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord;

In well-doing.

Galatians 4:18 But it is good to be zealously affected always in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.

Titus 2:14 Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.

In desiring the Salvation of others.

Acts 26:29 And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds.

Romans 10:1 Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is, that they might be saved.

In contending for the Faith.

Jude 3 Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common Salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you, and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the Faith which was once delivered unto the Saints.

In missionary labors.

Romans 15:19 Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and round about unto Illyricum, I have fully preached the Gospel of Christ.

Romans 15:23 But now having no more place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come unto you;

For the glory of God.

Numbers 25:11 Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, hath turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, while he was zealous for my sake among them, that I consumed not the children of Israel in my jealousy.

Numbers 25:13 And he shall have it, and his seed after him, even the covenant of an everlasting priesthood; because he was zealous for his God, and made an Atonement for the children of Israel.

For the welfare of Saints.

Colossians 4:13 For I bear him record, that he hath a great zeal for you, and them that are in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.

Against idolatry.

2 Kings 23:4-14 And the king commanded Hilkiah the High Priest, and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring forth out of the temple of the LORD all the vessels that were made for Baal, and for the grove, and for all the host of heaven: and he burned them without Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron, and carried the ashes of them unto Bethel. 5 And he put down the idolatrous priests, whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah, and in the places round about Jerusalem; them also that burned incense unto Baal, to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the host of heaven. 6 And he brought out the grove from the house of the LORD, without Jerusalem, unto the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron, and stamped it small to powder, and cast the powder thereof upon the graves of the children of the people. 7 And he brake down the houses of the sodomites, that were by the house of the LORD, where the Women wove hangings for the grove. ...

Sometimes wrongly directed.

2 Samuel 21:2 And the king called the Gibeonites, and said unto them; (now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of the Amorites; and the children of Israel had sworn unto them: and Saul sought to slay them in his zeal to the children of Israel and Judah.)

Acts 22:3-4 I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfect manner of The Law of the Fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye all are this day. 4 And I persecuted this way unto the Death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women.

Sometimes not according to knowledge.

Romans 10:2 For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge.

Galatians 1:14 And profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my Fathers.

Acts 21:20 And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said unto him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are which believe; and they are all zealous of The Law:

Ungodly men sometimes pretend to.

2 Kings 10:16 And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for the LORD. So they made him ride in his chariot.

Matthew 23:15 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye Compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he is made, ye make him twofold more the child of Hell than yourselves.

Exhortation to.

Romans 12:11 Not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord;

Revelation 3:19 As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore, and repent.

Holy Exemplified.

Phinehas,

Numbers 25:11 Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, hath turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, while he was zealous for my sake among them, that I consumed not the children of Israel in my jealousy.

Numbers 25:13 And he shall have it, and his seed after him, even the covenant of an everlasting priesthood; because he was zealous for his God, and made an Atonement for the children of Israel.

Josiah,

2 Kings 23:19-25 And all the houses also of the high places that were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made to provoke the LORD to Anger, Josiah took away, and did to them according to all the acts that he had done in Bethel. 20 And he slew all the priests of the high places that were there upon the Altars, and burned men's bones upon them, and returned to Jerusalem. 21 And the king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the Passover unto the LORD your God, as it is written in the book of this covenant. 22 Surely there was not holden such a Passover from the days of the Judges that judged Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel, nor of the kings of Judah; ...

Apollos,

Acts 18:25 This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John.

Corinthians,

1 Corinthians 14:12 Even so ye, forasmuch as ye are zealous of Spiritual Gifts, seek that ye may excel to the edifying of the Church.

Epaphras,

Colossians 4:12-13 Epaphras, who is one of you, a Servant of Christ, saluteth you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. 13 For I bear him record, that he hath a great zeal for you, and them that are in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.