"Zebulun, The Tribe of





Descended from Jacob's tenth son.

Genesis 30:19-20 And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son. 20 And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will my husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she called his name Zebulun.

Predictions respecting.

Genesis 49:13 Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for an haven of ships; and his border shall be unto Zidon.

Deuteronomy 33:18-19 And of Zebulun he said, Rejoice, Zebulun, in thy going out; and, Issachar, in thy tents. 19 They shall call the people unto the mountain; there they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness: for they shall suck of the Abundance of the seas, and of treasures hid in the sand.

PERSONS SELECTED FROM,

To number the people.

Numbers 1:9 Of Zebulun; Eliab the son of Helon.

To spy out the land.

Numbers 13:10 Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi.

To divide the land.

Numbers 34:25 And the prince of the tribe of the children of Zebulun, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.

Strength of, on leaving Egypt.

Numbers 1:30-31 Of the children of Zebulun, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their Fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 31 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Zebulun, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.

Formed the rear of the first division of the army of Israel in its journeys.

Numbers 10:14 In the first place went the standard of the camp of the children of Judah according to their armies: and over his host was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.

Numbers 10:16 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.

Encamped under the standard of Judah, east of The Tabernacle.

Numbers 2:3 And on the east side toward the rising of the sun shall they of the standard of the camp of Judah pitch throughout their armies: and Nahshon the son of Amminadab shall be captain of the children of Judah.

Numbers 2:7 Then the tribe of Zebulun: and Eliab the son of Helon shall be captain of the children of Zebulun.

Offering of, at the dedication.

Numbers 7:24-29 On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the children of Zebulun, did offer: 25 His offering was one silver Charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 26 One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 27 One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a Burnt Offering: ...

Families of.

Numbers 26:26-27 Of the sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Sardites: of Elon, the family of the Elonites: of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites. 27 These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those that were numbered of them, threescore thousand and five hundred.

Strength of, on entering Canaan.

Numbers 26:27 These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those that were numbered of them, threescore thousand and five hundred.

On Ebal said amen to the curses.

Deuteronomy 27:13 And these shall stand upon mount Ebal to curse; Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.

A naval and commercial people.

Genesis 49:13 Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for an haven of ships; and his border shall be unto Zidon.

Furnished scribes or writers to Israel.

Judges 5:14 Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down Governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.

Bounds of their inheritance.

Joshua 19:10-16 And the third lot came up for the children of Zebulun according to their families: and the border of their inheritance was unto Sarid: 11 And their border went up toward the sea, and Maralah, and reached to Dabbasheth, and reached to the river that is before Jokneam; 12 And turned from Sarid eastward toward the sunrising unto the border of Chislothtabor, and then goeth out to Daberath, and goeth up to Japhia, 13 And from thence passeth on along on the east to Gittahhepher, to Ittahkazin, and goeth out to Remmonmethoar to Neah; ...

Unable to drive out the Canaanites from their cities, but made them tributary.

Judges 1:30 Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.

Praised for assisting Deborah and Barak in opposing Sisera.

Judges 5:14 Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down Governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.

Judges 4:10 And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet: and Deborah went up with him.

Aided Gideon against the army of the Midianites.

Judges 6:35 And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; who also was gathered after him: and he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.

Furnished a Judge to Israel.

Judges 12:11-12 And after him Elon, a Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years. 12 And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the country of Zebulun.

Some of, at David's coronation.

1 Chronicles 12:33 Of Zebulun, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, with all instruments of war, fifty thousand, which could keep rank: they were not of double heart.

Officer appointed over by David.

1 Chronicles 27:19 Of Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of Naphtali, Jerimoth the son of Azriel:

Only some of, assisted in Hezekiah's reformation.

2 Chronicles 30:10-11 So the posts passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh even unto Zebulun: but they laughed them to scorn, and mocked them. 11 Nevertheless Divers of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled themselves, and came to Jerusalem.

2 Chronicles 30:18 For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim, and Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet did they eat the Passover otherwise than it was written. But Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, The good LORD pardon every one

Country of, blessed with the presence and instruction of Christ.

Isaiah 9:1 Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation, when at the first he lightly Afflicted the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, and afterward did more grievously afflict her by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, in Galilee of the nations.

Matthew 4:13-15 And leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is upon the sea Coast, in the borders of Zabulon and Nephthalim: 14 That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, 15 The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim, by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles;"
